The Little School-Mothers
By L.T. Meade
Illustrations by Anon
Published by Cassell and Company Limited, London.
This edition dated 1910.

The Little School-Mothers, by L.T. Meade.

________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________
THE LITTLE SCHOOL-MOTHERS, BY L.T. MEADE.

Book 1--CHAPTER ONE.

THE GIRLS OF THE THIRD FORM.

"Robina Starling will arrive at the school this evening," said Mrs
Burton.  "She is twelve years old, and has never been at school before.
I want you girls of the third form to take her under your charge.
Frederica and Patience Chetwold, do you hear?  Harriet Lane and Jane
Bush, I expect great tact and consideration; don't forget.  And as to
you, dear Rose, and you.  Cecil and Vivian Amberley, I know beforehand
that you are always sweet and considerate to those a little younger and
a little more ignorant than yourselves.  Robina has been sent from home
because of her mother's illness.  She is quite a little home bird, and I
have no doubt will be sorry for herself.  I have given her people to
understand that she will be very happy at school, and I expect you girls
of the third form to help me to carry out my prognostications.  Now
then, I think that is all.  We will begin our usual lessons.  Miss
Sparke, will you take the third form girls for their history?  Miss
Devigny, the sixth form are waiting for you in the blue parlour."

A minute later the several girls of Abbeyfield School had dispersed to
their different classrooms, and the great hall in which they had
assembled for prayers, and afterwards to hear Mrs Burton's remarks with
regard to Robina Starling, was empty.  A busy hum of eager voices might
have been heard issuing from the different classrooms.  It was the
subdued hum caused by young people kept in complete order and actively
engaged in following the pursuit of knowledge.

Abbeyfield School was situated in the neighbourhood of the New Forest,
and was within half an hour by train of Bournemouth.  The time was
midsummer, and the holidays were not far ahead.  The school was a very
select one, and did not consist of more than twenty pupils.  There was
the third form for the girls already mentioned: Frederica and Patience
Chetwold, Harriet Lane, and Jane Bush, and the three Amberleys.  There
was the first form, where the little children played and learned a
little and were happy--there were only three little children now in the
first form--and then there was the sixth form, where the girls who were
considered grown-up pursued their studies.  Here might be seen grave
Constance Amberley, the sister of Rose and Cecil and Vivian; here, also,
were Julia Price and Agnes Winter, and several more, all well-behaved
girls anxious to do their duty and to take advantage of the many
excellent opportunities offered to them at Abbeyfield.

There were, to all appearance, no really naughty girls in the school,
although it is true that Harriet Lane and Jane Bush were not quite so
much liked as their fellows.  Still, harmony was the order of the hour,
and no young people looked happier than these as they went two by two
into their pews to the old church on Sunday and appeared now and then at
a fashionable flower show at Bournemouth, or--best time of all--played
merrily in the fields and lanes which surrounded Abbeyfield.

On the day when Mrs Burton had announced the arrival of Robina
Starling, there was to be a picnic, to which every member of the school
had been invited.  It was a special picnic given by Miss Devigny, the
lady who superintended the studies of the sixth form girls.  She was to
take them to a well-known place called Mark Ash, about six miles away.
They were to have a picnic tea, and were not to return home until late.
Mrs Burton would not accompany them, but Miss Sparke and Miss Devigny
were considered quite a sufficient escort.  They would drive to Mark Ash
in two waggonettes, and every heart was pit-a-pat with excitement at the
thought of their happy afternoon.

Miss Devigny was the sort of teacher whom all girls idolise.  It was not
that she was exactly beautiful, nor perhaps especially clever, but she
had that indescribable attribute which is best known by the word
"charm."  Without any apparent effort on her part, she charmed all those
with whom she came in contact.  Even the dullest pupil brightened and
did her best under Miss Devigny's influence; even the most sulky became
good-tempered, and the most secretive became open and above-board.  The
great inducement for the little girls of the third form to struggle hard
and conquer the difficulties of English, French, and German was the hope
that they would be moved into Miss Devigny's class.  To work with her in
the blue parlour was as good as a holiday--so the girls who were there
already affirmed, and so all, without a single exception, believed.

Now, however, there was a new topic of interest.  Something very
wonderful had occurred.  The third form girls were to receive a new
companion.  For a girl to arrive at the school so late in the term was
itself rather remarkable, but for a girl to come and be immediately
placed, as it were, in their charge; for a girl to be made over to them
so that they alone were to be in a measure responsible for her
well-being and happiness, was a state of things which at once dazzled
and perplexed them.

During recess that morning the girls of the third form met in a little
group to discuss the situation.  Even the sixth form girls looked at
them with a certain envy, and thought it somewhat strange of Mrs Burton
to put this responsibility upon the young ones.  The sixth form girls
were, of course, much too grand to interfere, but they also were
interested in Robina.

"She must be a sort of bird," said Frederica.  "Think of her funny
name--Robina Starling."

"We must not laugh at her," said Patience; "we must be very careful
about her.  I wonder at what end of the dormitory she will sleep?"

"There is an empty bed at the far end near me," said Harriet Lane.

"Oh, she won't be put there, Harry; don't you make any mistake," said
Jane Bush.  "She is going to be petted and fussed over--I can see that.
I know quite well what will happen.  She will have the centre bed under
the window--that's the nicest bed of all.  You're in it now, Rose."
Here Jane laughed.  "Well, you'll have to turn out; the bird will want
it; see if I am not right."

"Don't be nasty," said Rose.  "If I have to turn out, I don't mind, not
one bit.  Poor little thing!  She has never been at school before, and
she is twelve years old.  It's rather nice to have the charge of her;
don't you think so, girls?"

"Yes," said they all, except Harriet and Jane.

"I do wonder what she will be like?" said Cecil Amberley.

"I know," cried Harriet.  "You mark my words, girls."  Here she pushed
herself forward in a silly, aggravating way she had.  "You mark my
words.  There is something queer about that Robina.  Why should we
receive her in the sort of manner Mrs Burton seems to expect?  Why
should we be so precious good to her?  She must be a weakling; perhaps
she is deformed, or has a squint."

"Oh!  Harriet, you don't think so!" said Vivian Amberley, the youngest
of the four sisters, and in consequence the most petted.  "I can't bear
girls with squints," she added.

"But that would be better than having a hunchback," said Jane.

"She is sure to have something," continued Harriet.  "It may not be
either of these, but something.  She is small, and ugly, and
frightened--that I am certain of.  Oh, of course we'll have to be good
to her; but at the same time, what I say is this, girls: we'll have to
let that young 'un know at once that she is not to have her own way
about everything."

"There is something in what you say," remarked Patience Chetwold; "and
although I never quite care for your sort of tone, Harriet, yet I think,
too, we must not let the girl rule us all.  She won't love us a bit if
we spoil her."

"Of course she won't," said Frederica.

"Well, I am going to spoil her," said Rose; "and I know for certain she
is not a bit like what you say, you horrid thing," and she darted an
angry glance at Harriet Lane.  "She has a very pretty name, to begin
with, and I am certain she is just a dear."

"Don't let's quarrel about her," said Jane.  "So far we are not a
quarrelling lot.  It would be too bad if that Robina started quarrelling
in the school."

"Oh, I say, girls, there's the bell!  Let's go in.  Let's race to the
door.  Who'll be first?"

"I say!" cried Harriet.  "Who'll follow?  Come along, Jane Bush!"

The picnic was great fun.  The girls said so afterwards.  There was not
a single flaw anywhere; there was no sort of dissension in the school;
the children were well-behaved, they did not quarrel.  It is true that
Jane Bush could quarrel if there was anyone to quarrel with, and it is
true that Harriet could be nasty, and even spiteful, were the occasion
to offer.  But then it did not offer.  When there happen to be in a form
two girls like the Chetwolds, and three girls like the Amberleys, two
somewhat disagreeable girls have very little chance of making their
presence felt.  Accordingly, no one disputed for the favourite place
near Miss Devigny, and no one rebelled or made nasty remarks when Jane
Bush secured the last morsel of cream blancmange for herself; no one
even whispered "Greedy pig!" but everyone was as ladylike and charming
as possible.

Miss Devigny turned to Miss Sparke, and said, under her breath:

"I really never saw such well-behaved little girls; they do you great
credit, Miss Sparke."

"They are naturally amiable," replied Miss Sparke; "and I only trust
things will continue in as great harmony as at present after Robina
Starling arrives."

"Do you know anything about the child?" asked Miss Devigny, dropping her
voice and coming closer to the other teacher.

"Not much, except that she is too troublesome at home to remain there
any longer.  Her mother is very far from well, and little Robina has
never learned obedience.  Dear Mrs Burton is not afraid of her on that
account, however, and she believes that there will be no finer
discipline for her than making her over, as it were, to the third form."

"Perhaps so," said Miss Devigny, a little doubtfully; "but I am not so
sure on that point," she added.

The girls were now playing hide-and-seek in the wood, and while the two
governesses were talking, quite unperceived by them a little head peeped
out from amongst a great mass of underwood, and two bright, mischievous
black eyes looked keenly for a minute at Miss Devigny, and then the head
popped back again before anyone could see.  The governesses were quite
unaware that one of the most troublesome children in the third form had
overheard them.  This child was no less a person than Jane Bush.

Jane was a little girl who had never known a mother's care.  She had
been sent to this nice school when she was ten years of age.  She had
been at Abbeyfield now for nearly two years.  She was a small girl for
her age, somewhat stoutly built.  She had very black eyes, and short
black hair, which she always wore like a mop sticking up all over her
funny round head.  She was a perfect contrast to her own special friend
and ally, Harriet Lane.  Harriet was a tall, lanky, pale child.  She had
exceedingly light blue eyes, a large mouth, somewhat prominent teeth,
and thin, hay-coloured hair.  She was not at all pretty.  Harriet had
made up her mind on the subject of her own looks long ago.

"I must be something," she thought.  "If I am not pretty, I must at
least be out of the common.  I will make people see that I am awfully
clever.  It's just as nice to be clever as to be pretty."

Perhaps Harriet was more clever than her companions.  She certainly did
manage to impress the others with her power of learning French and
German, with the excellent way in which she studied her "pieces" for the
pianoforte, and with her really pretty little drawings, which, in her
opinion, were almost works of art.

Harriet, in her heart of hearts, voted the Chetwolds dull and the three
Amberleys molly-coddles.

"They are always fussing about their throats or having damp feet or
getting a little bit of a chill," she remarked on one occasion in a very
superior tone to Jane.  "I have no patience with girls who are always
thinking of themselves; they just do it to be petted.  As to that
Vivian, she knows quite well that if she manages to cry a little and put
her hand to her throat, she won't have any more lessons for the rest of
the day."

"I call Vivian a horrid little cheat, although she is thought such a
model," said Jane.

"Oh, I hate models," said Harriet.  "Give me a naughty girl, by
preference."

"There are no naughty girls in this school," said Jane; "they are every
one of them as good as good.  It's awfully dull," she added.  "Even you
and I can't be naughty, Harriet; for there's no one to be naughty with."

These were the sentiments of these two really troublesome young people
when they started on their picnic.  In the course of that same evening,
when the sun was about to set, and the slight summer breeze had dropped
away, and there was a perfect calm all over nature and a serene pale
blue sky overhead, then Jane Bush met Harriet Lane and, clutching her by
the arm, said:

"Oh, Harry, Harry!  What do you think?"

"I am sure I don't know," said Harriet, who looked taller and more lanky
than ever.  "I wish you wouldn't get so frightfully excited, Jane.  You
quite take my breath away."

"I have got news for you," said Jane, making her mouth into a round "O,"
and forming a trumpet for it with her hand.  "News!" she repeated.
"Wonderful grand news!" and now she managed to shout the words into
Harriet's ear.

"Don't deafen me," said Harriet.  "I can't help it if you have news.  I
don't suppose there is anything in your new's," she continued.

"You are as cross as two sticks, Harry," said Jane; "but you won't be
when you hear what I have got to say.  Come along; I must tell you
before we start for home, and they are putting the horses to the
waggonettes already.  Let's run down this glade.  Let's be very quick,
or they'll stop us.  I see old Sparke coming back as fast as she can,
and she'll begin to call us all to the top of that little mound.  It is
there we are to wait for the waggonettes.  Come--quick!"

Harriet, although she liked Jane, had a secret sort of contempt for her.
She could be naughty, of course, but she was not clever.  Harriet
admired nothing but talent.  She believed herself to be a sort of
genius.

"I don't suppose you have anything to tell me," she repeated; "but I'll
come if you want me to.  See, I'll race you--one, two, three!  I'll get
first to that tall tree at the end of the glade."

In a race with Harriet, Jane was nowhere, for Harriet's legs were so
long and she was so light that she flew almost like the wind over the
ground.  She easily reached the meeting-place first, and Jane followed
her, panting, red in the face, and a little cross.

"You did take the wind out of me," she said.  "Oh, oh, oh!"

She pressed her hand to her side.

"I cannot speak at all for a minute--I--I--can't--tell you my news.  Oh,
you have winded me--you have!"

"Don't talk, then," said Harriet, who was leaning comfortably with her
back against a tree; while Jane, round as a ball and crimson in the
face, panted a little way off.  By-and-by, however, Jane got back her
voice.

"I've found out something about the new 'un," she said, "that bird
thing, who will be here to-night.  I was hiding down in the brushwood,
just by the big oak, and you were all looking for me; but I buried
myself under a holly tree, and no one could see even a squint of me,
however hard one looked.  _They_--didn't know I was there."

"Who do you mean by `they'?" interrupted Harriet.

"Sparke and Devigny," said Jane.  "Oh, of course I am fond of Miss
Devigny, but I can't be bothered to `Miss' her when I'm in no end of a
hurry.  Well, they talked, and it was all about the new 'un.  _She_ is
not a model; that's one comfort.  She is so desperately naughty she has
been sent from home--sort of expelled, you know--sort of disgraced for
life; a nice sort of creature to come here!  And we're to mould her.
What is to `mould' a body, Harriet?"

"To make them like ourselves, I suppose," said Harriet, whose eyes
sparkled over this intelligence.

"That is what Sparke said; she hopes everything for the bird from our
influence.  Isn't it fun?  Isn't it great?  I am quite excited!  See
here now: think what larks we'll have with a squint-eyed, hunchbacked,
very naughty girl.  Oh, won't it be larks!"

"She may be a nuisance, there is no saying," remarked Harriet.

"Why, aren't you delighted, Harriet?  I am."

"Can't say," answered Harriet.  "I only hope," she added, "that whatever
else she is, she is stupid.  I don't want any clever girls in the same
form with me.  Now, let's go back, Jane."

"You don't seem at all obliged to me for telling you such a wonderful
piece of news," said Jane.

"I am not.  We'd have found it all out for ourselves in no time, and you
should _never_ listen--you know you shouldn't."

"Oh, Harriet, you won't tell on me--you promise you won't?"

"I?  Of course not, silly.  Now let's be quick.  I hear Sparkie
shouting.  Let's run back.  Oh, I _am_ glad I have got long legs!"

Book 1--CHAPTER TWO.

ROBINA.

Robina Starling was waiting all by herself in the school parlour.  Mrs
Burton had received her, and had been very nice to the small girl.  She
had talked to her affectionately, and even kissed her, and had herself
taken her to the dormitory where the girls of the third form slept.  She
had shown her the little cubicle which was to be all her own, and said
that she felt quite certain Robina would be happy at school.

"There is no unhappy girl in my school," she said, "and if you are not
as gay as a lark and as bright as the sunshine, you will be the first
discontented girl who ever came to Abbeyfield.  Now, dear, your things
will be unpacked for you by Preston; but, in the meantime, you might
brush your hair and wash your hands; then you can come down to me.  We
shall have tea together this first night.  Afterwards, I will take you
to the parlour, where you can wait for your companions."

Mrs Burton left the dormitory as she spoke, and Robina stood there all
alone.  When she found herself quite alone, she blinked her eyes hard
two or three times, then, tossing back her great mane of thick brown
hair, said under her breath, "Now I am better."  Then she proceeded to
investigate the room.

There were eight beds in the room, and it was, of course, very large.
This dormitory, occupied by the third form girls, was perhaps the most
beautiful bedroom it was possible to see.  Each girl's little division,
or cubicle, was quite as large as an ordinary small bedroom.  It was
curtained off, and was completely furnished within with every
requirement that a small girl could desire.  There was, to begin with, a
very pretty wash-hand stand with rows of wide, deep drawers beneath, and
over the stand was a looking-glass.  The wash-hand stand, with its
drawers and glass, was so placed that a girl could see her face nicely.
There was a little toilet table without a glass, and there was a deep
cupboard in the wall full of shelves at one side and a hanging press at
the other.  The floor of the little cubicle was carpeted with pretty
felt, and there were curtains to match at the windows.

Robina found herself in one of the most charming of the eight cubicles.
Each cubicle was arranged with a different colour, and Robina's was of a
very delicate shade of mauve; the paint was white and the decorations
mauve; the felt carpet was mauve, the curtains were mauve, and the
little bed had a French canopy over it of mauve and white curtains tied
back with broad mauve ribbons.  There was also a mauve silk _couvrepied_
on the bed, so that altogether the effect was most charming.

Robina was not, perhaps, a shy girl; and, having quickly taken in what
her own cubicle contained, she marched into the others.  Each cubicle
was exactly like its fellow, except that its colouring was different:
some were all in pink, some all in blue, some again in red and white,
some again in palest primrose.

"I have the prettiest," thought Robina; "not that I care."

She now looked out of her window.  The cubicle next to hers had no
window, so she was highly privileged; but she was not in a mood to
notice this at present.  She stood quite still, gazing steadily out at
the view.  Her face was peculiar for so young a child, and had a look of
power about it which would distinguish it all through life, and make
people inclined to look twice at her.  It was not exactly a beautiful
face, but it arrested attention.  The little nose was short, and
perfectly straight; the brows thick; the forehead broad and very white.
The eyes were good, but of a nondescript colour; so that one moment you
spoke of them as brown, at another as blue, at another as grey.  At
night, they looked very black, and in times of emotion they would
sparkle in quite a dangerous way.  Robina's mouth was well cut, but a
little large.  She had a clear skin that was somewhat pale, and was a
square-built child, neither especially tall nor especially short for her
age.

Having completed her toilet--not with any particular view to being tidy
or making herself charming--she went downstairs.  A maid directed her to
Mrs Burton's sitting-room, where she and her mistress had tea.

During tea-time, Mrs Burton did what she could to draw Robina out.  But
this was not at all an easy task.  Robina did not want to be drawn; and
she was the sort of child whom it was absolutely difficult to force out
of the way in which she washed to go.  Mrs Burton tried her on the
subject of her sick mother; but although Robina did blink her eyes twice
in a rather suspicious manner, she replied quite calmly, saying that her
mother was always an invalid and could not stand noise.

"I am noisy," said Robina, "so that is why I have been sent to you.  Did
you know that?"

"Yes," replied Mrs Burton.

"Do you expect me to be very quiet here?" continued Robina.

"In play-time," answered Mrs Burton, "you can be as noisy as you like."

"But when I am in the mood I am always noisy," said Robina.

"We don't have moods here," replied Mrs Burton, whereupon Robina
stretched out her hand and helped herself without asking to a large
piece of cake.  She ate it almost greedily, stuffing great pieces into
her mouth.

Mrs Burton was determined that no discipline should begin that evening,
so she turned now to the subject of lessons.  What did Robina know?
Nothing, it seemed, and yet in a way everything.

"I have read lots," answered that young lady calmly; "but they couldn't
manage me about my lessons; that was another reason why they sent me
here.  Did you know that?"

"Yes; I have heard it," replied Mrs Burton.

"Do you mean to manage me here?" asked Robina.

"I hope so," replied the headmistress.

"Nobody else has been able to do it," said Robina in a very calm voice.

Then she got up, allowing a lot of crumbs to fall upon the floor, and
walked to the window.  She stood--perhaps with intention--her broad back
to her governess.  Mrs Burton looked at the back, the well-squared
shoulders, the sturdy little figure, the thick hair which fell in
luxuriant masses far below the child's waist.

Mrs Burton was not one either to sigh or despair; but she knew quite
well that she had undertaken no mean task in introducing Robina Starling
into her orderly school.  After a minute's pause she got up, and, going
to her little pupil, took her hand.

"I want you to help me, Robina," she said.  The wild eyes darted a quick
glance into her face.

"How?" asked Robina.  "I am not much good at that sort of thing."

"I won't tell you how to-night, my dear; but perhaps to-morrow we will
have a talk.  There is one rule in the school which has never been
broken yet; and that is, that a new pupil--quite a new pupil--has tea
with me all by herself on the day after her arrival.  So you, Robina,
will have the privilege of having tea alone with me to-morrow evening.
You must come to me here at five o'clock--sharp at five o'clock,
remember--and then you and I will have a little talk and I hope a nice
time together.  It is considered an honour, my love."

"That depends on who is considering, doesn't it?" said Robina very
calmly.

"I am sure you will think it an honour," said Mrs Burton in as calm a
voice.  Then she took her pupil's hand, and led her into the school
parlour.  "You will find books here," she said, "and every single thing
you want until the other girls come back.  I expect them at eight
o'clock, when you will all have supper, and then you will go to bed."

Robina said nothing, and the headmistress went away.

There were three special parlours in the school.  They were called by
the old-fashioned name of parlour, but they were in reality ordinary
sitting-rooms.  One was devoted to the sixth form girls, and this was a
large and truly elegant apartment, furnished well, with a grand piano,
and easels, and beautiful pictures on the walls.  The sixth form girls
had all sorts of comfortable chairs and everything to conduce to that
feeling of being grown-up which is so much liked by girls of from
sixteen to eighteen years of age.

The little ones had also a parlour which was more like a play-room than
anything else; and the third form parlour, in which Robina now found
herself, was a large, square room with a round table in the middle, a
book-shelf full of story-books, another book-shelf full of histories and
works of travel, a pair of globes, and several bird-cages.  A bird-cage
hung down before each of the four windows, and in the cages were
canaries, bullfinches, and other tame birds.  There was also a parrot in
a large cage in one corner of the room.

Robina, whose eyes had been quite dull, and who had felt an
indescribable and most painful weight at her heart, quite brightened up
when she saw the birds.  She amused herself taking her chair from one
window to another and examining the feathered creatures, who had now
curled themselves up into round fluffy balls, and were sound asleep.
Not for the world would she awaken them; but a new, tender sort of light
came into her eyes as she watched them.

"Pretty darlings!" she said softly, under her breath.  Her whole queer
little face became happier in expression after she had examined the pet
birds of the third form.  She then crossed the room to look at the
parrot.  The parrot was an old grey bird with a solemn, wise face.  He
was not asleep: no one ever seemed to catch him nodding.  He turned his
head to one side and looked full at the new-comer.

"Mind what you're about!" he said sharply, and then he turned his back
to her as though she were not of the slightest consequence.

Robina burst out laughing.  The parrot laughed too, but still kept his
back to her.

"Mind what _you're_ about yourself," said Robina.  Whereupon the parrot
answered, "Ha, ha!" and the next minute began to "_miaow_" in the most
distracted manner, as though he were an angry cat.

Robina, now in fits of mirth, stood and regarded him.  She was so
employed when all the girls of the third form burst into the room.  They
came in in great excitement, each pair of eyes fixed upon Robina, and
all the seven pairs of lips eager to say something to the girl who had
so strongly excited their curiosity.

"I am so glad to see you.  How do you do?" said Frederica, who was
slightly the oldest girl in the form, and therefore the one to take the
lead.  "You are Robina, are you not?"

"Yes," said Robina.  She spoke with extreme calm.  "You must be very
tired."

"I am not a bit tired," said Robina.

"Well, I am glad you are not.  I am sorry we were not at home to welcome
you.  We have had a lovely picnic!"

"Bother picnics!" said Robina.

This was a little disconcerting.  Harriet Lane began to laugh.  The
parrot said instantly "Mind what you're about!  Ha, ha!" and everyone
laughed now.  The ice was broken: it was impossible to be formal after
Polly had declared himself.  Robina found that she was surrounded by a
lot of eager, good-looking, pleasant girls.  Each seemed more eager than
the other to give her a hearty welcome.  The soreness round her heart
was soothed for the time being.  She sank down on a chair and looked
them all over.

"You're not a bad lot for school-girls," she said; "but I don't know one
from the other.  Who is each?  Please don't speak so fast--one at a
time.  You are Frederica?  What a queer name!  Now, who are you?  And
who are you?  I will tell you very soon which of you I mean to be
friends with.  I always do what I like everywhere."

"Mind what you're about!  Ha, ha!" said the parrot.

Book 1--CHAPTER THREE.

DEVELOPMENTS.

In a very few days Robina Starling was settled at school.  She was as
completely settled there as though she had lived at Abbeyfield all her
life.  She was the sort of girl who quickly fitted herself into a new
niche.  She wasted no time in selecting her friends.  She was not a
scrap afraid.  She looked calmly, not only at the girls in the third
form, but at those superior beings--the sixth form girls.  What she
thought she always said.  Those girls who admired her said that Robina
was very straightforward, that it would be impossible for her to tell a
lie, and that they admired her for this trait in her character
extremely.  The girls who did not admire her, on the contrary, said that
she was rude and ill-bred; but that fact--for she knew quite well that
they said it--seemed rather to please Robina than otherwise.

She was quick, too, about her lessons.  Although she knew nothing in the
school way of knowing things, she had in reality a mass of varied
information in her little head.  She had a startling way of announcing
her knowledge in and out of school.  Miss Sparke used to find herself
sometimes put quite in the wrong by this extraordinary pupil.

"No, Miss Sparke," Robina said very calmly one morning during class,
when she had been a week in the school, "that was the old-fashioned
view, but if you look in the latest volumes on the subject, you will see
for yourself that things are changed now.  Shall I look for you, Miss
Sparke, or will you do it yourself?  It is a pity that you should teach
the wrong thing, isn't it?"

Miss Sparke said, "Hold your tongue, Robina; you are not to correct me
in school."

But she had coloured high when her naughty pupil spoke; and Robina, who
did not colour at all, nor show the slightest triumph, but who sat down
again in her seat with the utmost calm, made a deep impression on her
school-fellows.  She, with several of the girls, examined the latest
authorities that afternoon, and as Robina was proved absolutely correct,
and Miss Sparke wrong, the poor teacher took a lower place in her
pupils' estimation from that moment.

"You see," said Robina, "although I am young in years, I have always
read grown-up sort of things.  Father's frightfully clever, and so is
Mother, and as there are no other children at home, I just read what I
like.  Besides that, I hear Father talking with other learned men.
Father's a great scientist, and he knows.  Poor Sparkie is very well,
but she is no scientist, and she doesn't know."

"What is a scientist?" asked Frederica.

"Oh, Frederica!" said Harriet; "why surely you know that.  A scientist
is--" but then she coloured, for Robina had fixed her bright eyes on her
face.

"Well," said Robina calmly, "you will explain to Frederica what a
scientist is, won't you, Harriet?"

"A person who knows science, I suppose," answered Harriet, blurting out
the words, and then dashing out of the room in a fury.

A laugh followed her to the door.  She felt that she hated Robina.  She
had never really liked her from the very first; and now, with a choking
sensation in her throat, she went out into the playground.

The first person she saw was Jane.  Now Jane in her heart of hearts
greatly admired the new pupil.  The fact that she was really naughty at
home had, it is sad to relate, but added to Jane's liking for her.
Harriet, it is true, was Jane's own special friend, but Harriet was not
nearly so amusing or so daring as the new pupil.  Harriet now called her
companion to her in an imperious voice.

"Come here, this minute, you silly!" she said.  "Why do you stand there
with your mouth gaping and your legs far apart?  You look for all the
world like one of those foolish sheep on the back lawn."

"I am not a sheep; you needn't say it," answered Jane.

She had reached Harriet's side by this time.

"Well, come for a walk with me in the paddock," said Harriet.  "I don't
want to be cross to you, Jane, but really that new girl, Robina--she is
past bearing."

"Oh, I like her so much," said Jane.

"You do?" answered Harriet.  "You mean to tell me, you horrid thing,
that you would give me up for her?"

"Oh! no, no, Harry, of course not.  I like you best, of course.  You are
my real, oldest friend.  But I suppose a girl may have two friends, and
I do like her.  The thing that makes me so sad is this: she won't be my
friend; she snubs me like anything."

"There's one comfort," said Harriet; "she'll soon snub herself out of
the school if she isn't careful.  Think of her correcting Sparkie this
morning!  I never heard of such cheek in the whole course of my life."

Jane began to laugh.  "It was very clever of her," she said.

"It was very impertinent of her," said Harriet.

"But she was right," said Jane, "and Sparkie was wrong."

"I have no doubt she was wrong herself," said Harriet, "although," she
added, "she did prove her point in that horrid encyclopaedia."

The little girls had now reached the paddock.  Here was delicious shade
and green grass, and the heat of the July sun was tempered by a lovely
breeze.  Harriet, whose cheeks were hot with annoyance, began to cool
down.  Jane watched her with eager eyes.

"Harriet," said Jane; "you don't think for a minute that I love anyone
as much as you?"

"I hope you don't, Janie," said Harriet; "it would be awfully unkind of
you.  But now listen to me.  We must do something to stop this."

"To stop what?" asked Jane.

"That young 'un taking the lead in everything.  It is too ridiculous.
She hasn't been more than a week in the school, and yet everything
yields to her.  She struts about with her head in the air and even talks
to the girls of the sixth form, and isn't a bit afraid of Sparkie or
even of Devigny.  The next thing we'll find if this goes on is that Mrs
Burton herself is corrected by her.  I wish, I do wish, I wish beyond
_anything_, I could get her proved in the wrong herself."

"Oh, Harriet!" exclaimed Jane.

"Yes, I do," said Harriet; "I don't pretend otherwise; she has taken
everything from me."

"Oh, what _do_ you mean?" said Jane.

"I had not much," continued Harriet; "but yet I had one thing.  I was at
the head of my form; I was certain of the best prizes; I was considered
the clever one.  I was not vain of it, but I was glad.  Now, I am the
clever one no longer.  She is at the head of the form.  Although she has
been such a short time in the school, she will get a prize at break-up;
I know she will.  It isn't that she has ever been taught in the school
way, but she knows such a lot.  Oh, I do hate her, Janie!  I wish--I
wish she had not come!"

"Poor Harriet!" said Jane.

She felt immensely pleased herself at this confidence reposed in her.
Hitherto Harriet, with her pale face, her lank hair, her tall young
figure, had been very condescending to black-eyed, roly-poly Jane.  She
had kept Jane under, and had only condescended to listen to her now and
then.  It was delicious to be confided in; to have Harriet explain to
Jane what she felt about things.  After a time, Jane said softly: "Until
Robina came, we were the _only_ naughty girls in the school."

"Oh, we were not a bit naughty in reality," said Harriet.  "It pleased
you to think it, Janie.  When I told you that we were the naughty ones,
you used to be as proud as Punch; but we were not really naughty as she
could be naughty.  I declare since she came I feel that I could do
anything."

"Let us make _her_ naughty," said Jane, in a low tone.

"Let us what?" asked Harriet, turning and facing her little companion.

"I know!" said Jane after a pause.  "I heard what they said when I was
hiding under the holly bush.  They said that she was sent to school
because she was so noisy and wouldn't obey anyone.  Up to the present
she has only been a little naughty; she has done the sort of things that
people forgive.  Let us make her do something that people don't forgive:
let's make her awfully disobedient."

"I declare, Janie," said Harriet, "you're a much cleverer girl than I
gave you credit for.  That isn't at all a bad idea.  Of course it's
naughty of us to wish anything of the sort; but then she is too
aggravating, and--and--if she takes my character for cleverness away,
and keeps the head of the form, and wins my prize--I _cannot_ stand it.
Oh, she put me to shame just now before the others--I won't tell you
how, for it isn't worth while; but she--she laughed as I went out of the
room, and--the others laughed, too.  I _hate_ her!  I don't mind what I
do to get her into trouble!"

"We mustn't do too much, we must be careful," said Jane.  "But if she is
really very disobedient at home, why should she not be disobedient just
once at school?  You are clever enough to manage that, aren't you,
Harriet?"

"And you are clever enough to help me," answered Harriet.  "Well, let's
say no more now; mum's the word.  They're going to have tea on the lawn,
and we may as well join the others.  I shall not feel nearly so bad now,
Janie, since you are my friend, and we are making up a little plot
together.  Let's think very hard.  Let's put on our considering caps,
and let's meet again here this hour to-morrow."

"Oh, Harriet!" said Jane.  "I am glad and I'm sorry.  I'm a bit
frightened, and yet my heart goes pit-a-pat with excitement.  I do love
you, Harriet.  Oh dear, oh dear!  I wonder if this is desperately
wicked!"

"I'll give you a kiss if you will faithfully promise not to say one word
of our conversation to another soul," said Harriet.

Her kisses were considered great favours by the hungry Jane, who now
received solemnly a peck on her forehead from Harriet.

"We'd best not be seen too much together," said Harriet.  "I will go
round by the fish-pond to the lawn, and you can run into the house and
come out that way."

There is no doubt whatever that these two girls felt a very extra spice
of naughtiness in their hearts on that afternoon.

Meanwhile, Robina was enjoying herself; she was the centre of a large
circle of girls.  She was very nicely dressed, to begin with; and she
looked, if not pretty, yet exceedingly interesting; her face was so full
of intelligence and her expression was so varying, that it was quite a
delight to watch her when she talked.  She had the merriest laugh, too,
like a peal of bells, and she had a very good-natured way of drawing a
neglected girl to her side, and putting her arm about her and making
friends with her for the time being.  In particular, she was fond of
little children, and the small girls of the school clung round her,
pressing up to her side, and begging to be allowed to sit on her knee
and fondle her, as tiny girls will.

The first form in the school at present only consisted of four little
girls.  There were Patty and Cissy Price--two wee sisters of seven and
six years of age; and there was Curly Pate--as they called her--the
youngest girl of all, who was not yet quite six; and there was little
Annie, who was older than the others, but very small in stature and very
delicate.

Curly Pate was the baby of the school, and was somewhat spoiled in
consequence.  She was a perfect roly-poly creature, with fat arms and
creasy, fat neck and little fat legs.  Her face was perfectly round--as
round as a ball, and she had blue eyes and a soft complexion, and
fluffy, curly, baby hair all over her little head.  Her hair was short
and thick, and of that fine, fine quality which only very tiny children
and babies possess.

From the eldest to the next youngest girl in the school Curly Pate was
the darling.  Anyone would be proud to walk with her, to caress her, to
submit to her whims; and Curly Pate, like all young queens, was
exacting.  She had her preferences.  She liked Constance Amberley better
than any of her own small companions.  When Constance walked about the
grounds with Curly Pate on her back--that young person pretending that
she was riding her pony and desiring her "Gee-gee" to go faster, and
pounding her on the head and shoulders in no inconsiderable degree--
Constance, far from being pitied, was envied by everyone else in the
school.  But lo, and behold! when Robina appeared, that fickle young
person--the school baby--changed her tactics.  She walked straight up to
Robina on the first day of her appearance in the playground and said:

"I 'ike oo--new dirl!" and established herself on the spot, Robina's
ruler.

Robina was elected to be the baby's slave, and the others laughed and
joked at Constance, and watched the baby with delight.  The other little
girls followed suit, as very small girls will.

On this special afternoon Robina had the four small children in a circle
round her.  Curly Pate, it is true, occupied the place of honour on the
young lady's lap, but Patty and Cissie Price, and grave, pale little
Annie were also close to the popular favourite.

"Tell us a story, Robina," asked Cissie Price.

"Not now," said Robina; "and you are not to pull me, babies, for it
makes me too hot.  Curly, sit still, you little imp!  I'll put you off
my knee if you don't behave."

Now none of the other girls in the third form would have dared to speak
to Curly in that tone.  They would have received a slap in the face for
their pains, but Curly took it quite meekly from Robina.

"I--is--dood.  I is--vedy dood.  I 'ove oo," she said.

She nestled up close to Robina, pulling that young person's hand round
her waist, and patting the said hand with her own two fat little ones
and saying, over and over again: "I 'ove oo, Wobbin--I 'ove oo!"

It was on this scene that Harriet and Jane appeared.  Since Robina had
come, Harriet had rather avoided her.  She had been jealous, poor child,
from the first moment; but now she altered her tactics, and forcing her
way through the group, sat down close to the new favourite.

"There's no room here," said Robina.  "Go a little further off, please,
Harriet; you are pushing little Annie and making her cry."

"I don't care twopence for little Annie!" cried Harriet, rudely.  "I
have as good a right to sit here as anybody else.  Don't press me,
Annie; if I am in the way, you're the person to make room, not me.  Go
back to your nursery, won't you?"

Annie, who was a very timid child, began to cry.  Robina immediately
rose, lifted Curly Pate on to her shoulder, and said to the three other
little ones:

"I have changed my mind.  I will tell you a story now, but no one else
shall listen; it's a lovely, true, true fairy tale.  We'll just sit
under that tree, and you shall all hear it."

They followed her, clinging to her skirt and one of them trying to grasp
her hand.  Harriet's face grew black.  Frederica said:

"Well, Harriet, you don't look too well pleased; but for my part, I
think Robina was quite right; you ought not to have taken poor little
Annie's place."

"Do you mind telling me," answered Harriet, "what right those children
have to interfere with us?  They belong to the first form; let them stay
in their nursery."

"Oh, as to that," said Rose Amberley, "they have as good a right to the
lawn as we have.  They are always allowed to play here every afternoon;
and Robina invited them to tea; she bought a lot of sweeties, chocolates
and cakes for them.  They are Robina's guests; they just worship her."

"Worship her, indeed!" said Harriet.  "Well--_I_ don't worship her."

"Anyone can see that, Harriet, and it is a great pity," said Rose
Amberley.  "Robina is a very nice girl, and as good as gold."

"Oh, is she!" said Harriet.  "Jane, what do _you_ think?"

"I know what I know," said Jane, nodding her little head with great
firmness.

Frederica looked very hard at Jane; then she glanced at her own sister.

"Look here," she said suddenly; "we have all been very happy at school,
haven't we?"

"Who says we haven't?" answered Harriet.  She felt crosser than ever,
for there were such peals of laughter coming from under the shelter of
that tree, where Robina was telling the babies her fairy tale.  "Who
says we haven't?" she repeated.

"The reason we have been happy," continued Frederica, "is simply this:
we have been--or at least we have tried to be--good.  It would indeed,"
continued the young girl, "be very difficult to be anything but good
here--here, where things are so sweet and everyone is so kind, and even
lessons, even lessons are made such a pleasure.  Why shouldn't we all
keep on being good? why should we be jealous?"

"Who says anyone is jealous?" said Harriet.

"Oh, Harriet!" said Frederica; "you know you are, just a little bit."

"I don't wonder she's jealous!" suddenly burst from Jane.  "Robina has
taken her place in class.  Harriet is our clever one; she doesn't want
to--to--"

"Oh, I am sure she is not small-minded enough for that," said Frederica
at once.  "If a cleverer girl comes to the school--"

"She is _not_ cleverer!" burst from Harriet.

"Well, Harriet, you've got to prove it.  If you are clever, work still
harder, and resume your place in the class, and I'm sure we'll all be
delighted: fair play is fair play, and it's very mean of you to be angry
about nothing.  Ah! here comes tea, and I am so thirsty.  Let's help to
lay it out, girls!"

Immediately every girl had started to her feet: a white table-cloth was
spread on the lawn, cups and saucers followed suit; tea, cake, bread and
butter, dishes of fruit were soon being eagerly discussed.  The small
children gave a whoop of excitement, and Robina returned, still carrying
Curly Pate, with the others in her train.

During tea, one of the little ones suggested that they should turn
Robina into a queen.  No sooner had the thought been uttered than it was
put into execution.  She was seated on a special chair and crowned with
flowers, which the children had been gathering for her.  A wreath of
flowers surrounded her laughing face, and a garland of flowers was
placed round her neck.  Curly Pate looked on just for a minute, then
said eagerly: "Me too! me too!"

"Why should there not be two queens?" said Robina.  "Gather some white
flowers for the baby, somebody."

"Somebody" meant everybody--that is, except Harriet, for even Jane was
drawn into the whirlpool of excitement.  Nothing could be prettier than
the happy faces of the children; and especially of the queen with her
flowers--her cheeks slightly flushed, her queer, half-wild,
half-pathetic eyes brighter and darker than usual, one arm encircling
Curly Pate's dear little fat body, and of Curly Pate herself, shrieking
with delight while a crown of white daisies encircled her little head.

It was on this scene that Mrs Burton, accompanied by a gentleman whom
the girls had never seen before, suddenly appeared.

Book 1--CHAPTER FOUR.

AN UNUSUAL PRIZE.

The gentleman was holding by the hand a small boy.  The boy could not
have been more than seven or eight years of age.  He was rather a little
boy for that, so that some of the girls put him down as younger.  He was
a very beautiful boy.  He had a little dark face, with that nut-brown
skin at once clear and yet full of colour which is in itself a great
loveliness.  His eyes were large and brown like the softest velvet.  He
had very thick brown hair with a sort of bronze tone in it, and this
hair hung in ringlets round his head.  The boy was dressed in a peculiar
way.  He wore a suit of brown velvet, which fitted his agile little
figure rather tightly.  He had brown silk stockings and little breeches,
and shoes with steel buckles.  Round his neck he wore a large lace
collar made in a sort of Vandyke fashion.  Altogether, this little boy
looked exactly as though he had stepped out of a picture.

He was not at all shy.  His eyes travelled over the scene, and they
fixed themselves on Curly Pate, while Curly Pate's eyes gazed on him.

There was dead silence for a minute, all the girls in the school looking
neither at Mrs Burton nor at the gentleman, but at the queer, new,
little, beautiful boy.  Then Curly Pate broke the stillness.

"I is kene," (queen), she said, "and--him is king!" and she pointed with
rapture at the boy.

"Oh, you're king, are you, Ralph?" said the gentleman.  Then he said
again: "Come over to me, little queen, and let me introduce you to the
king."

Never was anyone less shy than the school baby, and never, perhaps, was
anyone more fickle.  She scrambled immediately off Robina's knee and,
pushing aside her companions, went up to the boy and took his hand.

"Tiss I--king; won't oo?" she said, and she raised her little cherubic
mouth to the small boy.

The boy, who was no more shy than Curly Pate herself, stooped, kissed
her, and said:

"Oh, you little darling!"  Curly Pate gave her fat hand to his Majesty,
and the king and queen trotted off together.

"Does oo 'ike fairies, and butterflies and flowers?" the queen was heard
to say as she conducted His Majesty round the garden.

The girls all looked after them with pleasure, and the gentleman said to
Mrs Burton:

"Then I shall have no fear whatever.  I see he is happy already, and I
know all you girls will treat my little man kindly."

"Of course we will," said Robina, taking the lead in that way which
nearly drove poor Harriet mad.  "Is he going to stay here?  What a
perfect little darling he is!"

"He is going to stay from now until the end of the term," said the
gentleman; "then I am coming back for him, and I am going to give a
prize to the girl whom he himself likes best."

"Oh! then, of course, that will be Curly Pate," said Robina, still
smiling and looking very interesting and absolutely out of the common.

"Curly Pate won't count," said the gentleman.  "The prize is to be given
by Mrs Burton's permission to a girl in the third form.  Who are the
girls in the third form, if I may venture to ask, my dear madam?"

The gentleman had a most courteous way; his manners were so nice, and
his voice so--perhaps harmonious is the right word, that he might almost
have been a king himself.

"Girls of the third form," said Mrs Burton in reply, "come and stand
over here, will you?"

At the word of command, Frederica and Patience Chetwold, the three
Amberleys, Harriet and Jane, and last, but by no means least, Robina
Starling, stood in a long row before the strange gentleman and Mrs
Burton.

"So you are the third form girls," he said very kindly.  "Well, I am
exceedingly pleased to make your acquaintance.  One of you--that one
whom Mrs Burton considers the most truly kind to my little boy--shall
receive from my hands, on my return to claim my child, a prize.  It will
be, after a fashion, a prize for conduct, for it will be given to that
girl who does not spoil Ralph, but who helps him to be good, who wins
his love, who, in short, understands him.  I know he is a very pretty
boy, and on the whole, perhaps he is good; but he is by no means all
good, and perhaps it would be well, girls of the third form, to give you
a hint--he can be led, but never driven.  I think he is an honourable
little fellow, and I am sure he would not willingly tell a lie, or be
willingly disobedient.  I want one of you to be, in short, his
school-mother, and the school-mother who really adopts my Ralph shall be
rewarded by me."

Mrs Burton now spoke.

"You shall all be put on trial with regard to Ralph," she said, "for the
next week.  At the end of that time he will himself select his
school-mother, and unless something unforeseen occurs, I think, Mr
Durrant, the prize will be already won.  The fact is, my dear sir, there
are a great many prizes to be competed for just now, and I do not want
my girls to be kept in a state of suspense."

"I will give as my prize," said Mr Durrant, "a pony, with a
side-saddle, and a habit made to order and to fit the girl who wins the
prize.  In order, too, that the pony shall be no expense to the
fortunate owner, I will provide for its maintenance a certain sum per
year, until the owner can assure me that she is in a position to
undertake this expense herself.  What I mean is this," continued Mr
Durrant: "I don't want the girl's parents to have any expense with the
pony.  He will be my gift to the little girl who mothers my boy.  And
now I think I have said all that is necessary."

"I will talk to you girls on the subject of little Ralph this evening
after prayers," said the headmistress.  Then she turned away with Mr
Durrant, who, however, first of all shook hands with the girls of the
third form, and said a few words to the sixth form girls, and, in short,
charmed everyone.

Harriet was the person selected now to find the king and queen.

"Bring them both to the house, dear," said Mrs Burton, and Harriet,
well pleased, ran off to obey.  Nowhere within sight could the little
pair be found, and Harriet, after running for a few minutes, paused to
consider.

She wondered if this unexpected state of affairs would in any way
promote her own interest.  As a matter of fact, she hated small
children.  There was no small girl at the school who was ever seen to
interrupt Harriet's work, or to fling herself against Harriet's knees,
or to look into Harriet's face with that childish petition: "Oh! do tell
us a story, please."  The little ones left Harriet wisely alone, and
Harriet never concealed her aversion to them.

"Horrid little sticky things," she was heard to say, "with their
lollipops in their hands and their faces wanting washing, and their
clothes so grubby!"  These statements were quite false, for the small
children were kept by their kind teacher, Miss Ford, in the most
immaculate order.  But Harriet was well-known in the school not to stick
to the truth when she wished to give vent to her sentiments.  Now,
however, her feelings were changed.  She must, of course, find the king
and queen at once.

"Ridiculous name!" she murmured.  "That little tiresome, fat baby girl
and that small boy, dressed for all the world as though he were a
peacock!  But still--but still--a pony with a side-saddle and habit, and
his keep provided for, is worth struggling to win.  And then it would be
_such_ fun to get the prize over Robina's head.  She is certain sure of
it already, I see by her smug face.  I am sure I am clever enough to get
this from her, and I will."

Harriet now spied both children standing much too near the edge of a
round pond which ornamented part of the grounds.

"Oh, Curly Pate!" she shrieked.  "Come back this minute, you naughty
child, from the edge of the water!"

Curly Pate, who had been gazing at her own little image in the pond,
looked up.  Her fair face was flushed with passion, and seizing Ralph's
hand, she said imperiously:

"Turn away, king.  Curly Pate hates that howwid dirl."

Harriet was near enough to hear the words.  Angry already, and disliking
Curly Pate more than words could say, she rushed up to her now, seized
her by the waist, and planted her several feet away from the pond.

"There, you naughty, disobedient little thing!" she said.  "You'll be
drowned if you don't take care!"

Curly Pate burst into roars of tears, and set to work screaming as she
alone knew how.  Ralph, furious at having his queen abused, turned to
Harriet and began to beat her.

"Go away, go away!" he said.  "You're not a bit a nice girl.  Go away,
you horrid thing!"

"Horrid thing yourself!" said Harriet and she slapped Ralph across the
face.

Little Ralph Durrant was much too proud to cry; the slap stung him, and
the little olive-tinted face grew red.  After a minute, during which he
was struggling with himself, he turned towards Harriet and said gently:

"'Twasn't ladylike of you to slap me, but I forgive you."

"Oh, your Mightiness!  Do you, indeed?" said Harriet.  "I am sure, your
Majesty, I am exceedingly obliged."

The scornful tone was quite new to little Ralph.  What would have
happened next is hard to tell, if at that moment Robina had not rushed
up.

"Well, Curly," she said; "well, my little precious!  Why, what are you
crying about?  And Ralph, dear, is anything the matter with you?"

Curly, whose tears were now growing less, flung herself impetuously into
Robina's arms, while Robina laid a trembling hand on her shoulder.
Robina by this time was on her knees, both children fondling her.
Harriet stood still for a minute.  Then she said in a lofty tone:

"Take them to the house--or rather, take the boy to the house.  _I_ was
sent to fetch them, but of course it would be like you to interfere.
You want to be his school-mother, and to get the pony--I know you; and
let me say at once that I despise you for your horrid ways!"

Robina turned scarlet.

"You have no right--no right to say such things to me!" was her first
remark.  Then with a great effort she managed to quiet herself.  Her
eyes, with a wild light in them, were fixed on Harriet's face.

"I despise you too much," she said slowly, "to take any notice of your
words.  Curly, you shall have a ride, my sweet, on my shoulder; and
Ralph, you will hold one of my hands.  We must come quickly to the
house, for Mr Durrant wants you to say good-bye."

"Oh, good-bye," said Ralph; "that hurts, doesn't it?"

He forgot Harriet, who was watching the scene from a few feet away.  A
new expression filled his beautiful little face, his eyes were fixed on
Robina with a world of appeal.

"Yes," said Robina; "it hurts; but brave people don't mind pain."

"I am brave; I shan't mind it," said Ralph.  "Hold my hand for a bit
after _he_ goes, will you? and then I shall not mind at all."

Book 1--CHAPTER FIVE.

EXPLAINED.

After prayers that evening Mrs Burton, as she had arranged, had a talk
with the girls of the third form in her own private sitting-room.  She
spoke very simply, and explained what she considered her view of the
matter.

"My dears," she said, "this is a very nice opportunity for you, for
really to win the affection of a little fellow like Ralph is to achieve
a victory; and I earnestly want you all to try, not so much for the sake
of the prize as because the looking after a little fellow like that, who
will be very spirited and, doubtless, also very exacting, will be good
for your own character, teaching you forbearance, unselfishness, and
much thought for others, which are qualities every girl ought to
cultivate.  These are essentially girls' qualities, my dears; for all
those girls who hope to be true women by-and-by ought to possess them.
They are better and of greater value to the possessor than money or
cleverness or beauty, for they mean beauty of the heart, and will last,
my loves, when mere outward beauty fails, and, in short, even beyond
this life, when time is no more.  And now, dears, I am going to tell you
my little plan.

"There are altogether seven of you, excluding Robina.  Now, Robina has a
special power with children, and has already captivated the affections
of Ralph.  It would not be fair that Robina should exercise her
influence over him during the trial week, but each of the rest of you
shall in turn take care of the little man for an entire day.  I will
give you no directions whatever with regard to how you will treat him.
During that day the girl who has him in charge will be excused from
lessons.  She will look after him from morning till night, dress him and
undress him, take him for a walk, and provide for his amusement
generally.  She will help him to learn his simple lessons; she will, in
short, be his mother _pro tem_.  I do not expect any one of you
absolutely to fail, and at the end of the week Ralph is himself to
choose his school-mother.  Now, nothing can be fairer than this.
Frederica, my dear, you, as the eldest girl in the form, will look after
Ralph to-morrow.  And now I think I have said all that is necessary."

Mrs Burton asked the girls to leave the room, which they did in a body,
and great was the discussion which took place in the third form parlour
on that special evening.

Frederica was the first to speak.

"Of course, I will look after Ralph," she said, "and I don't believe I
shall find it difficult.  I have several brothers and sisters at home,
and though I don't know that I am especially good with children, I
think, on the whole, I can manage them fairly well."

"You are not to spoil him, you know," said Harriet.

"Perhaps," interrupted Frederica, "we had best each keep our own counsel
as to the manner in which we are to treat Ralph.  It is a great
responsibility, and as something hangs on it--for I don't pretend for a
moment I should not like to get the pony--the less we say to each other
the better."

"There's one thing," said Rose Amberley at that moment.  "Mrs Burton, I
am sure, will not wish any of us to give Ralph sweeties or cakes, or the
sort of things that might make him ill.  Otherwise, I suppose each girl
will manage him her own way.  Now, let us see.  To-morrow will be
Wednesday.  You are to look after him to-morrow, Frederica.  I suppose
Patience comes next, and then I; and then, I think, it is your turn,
Harriet, isn't it?  I presume we'll come according to our ages.  You are
next oldest to Rose, aren't you?"

"Yes," said Harriet.

"Very well then, Harriet.  If I look after Ralph to-morrow," said
Frederica, "and Patience has him on Thursday, and Rose on Friday,
Saturday will be your day."

"Oh, I hate having him on Saturday," said Harriet, "for that is our
half-holiday, and there are such lots of things to be done."

"Still, that can scarcely be helped," said Frederica again, "for your
turn comes on Saturday, so there is nothing to be said."

"What a nuisance!" said Harriet.  "And I suppose Jane will have him
Sunday; I wish my day were Sunday."

The other girls made no reply, and Harriet presently went out of the
room, her hand linked in Jane's.

"Now, Janie," she said, "you understand, of course, that I mean to get
that pony."

"I know you mean it," said Jane.

"What I mean I generally manage to do," was Harriet's response.

"You do, as a rule," replied Jane.

"If I get the pony," said Harriet, "I will let you ride him pretty
often.  You shall come over to our place, and you shall use my beautiful
side-saddle; of course, my habit won't fit you, you are such a round
podge of a girl, but you can wear any old skirt.  Shan't I make that
pony fly!  I'll give him beans!  Oh, yes; I mean to have him."

"But, after all," said Jane, "that depends upon whether Ralph chooses
you as his school-mother or not."

"You leave that to me," said Harriet.

"I am sure he won't choose you," said Jane.  "He will choose Robina; he
loves her now like anything."

"He will choose me," said Harriet.  "I have a plan in my head, and he's
certain to."

"But he hated you to-day," said Jane.  "If you really meant to win his
heart, you shouldn't have been so horridly cross to Curly Pate, and you
shouldn't have slapped him on the face."

"I know," said Harriet, in a contrite voice; "my passion got the better
of me, but you may be certain I will be on my guard on Saturday.  And
look here, Jane: you have not the remotest chance on your own account of
winning the prize, but if you help me to get it I won't forget you in
the matter of rides, and I will try and get Father and Mother to invite
you over to our place very often during the holidays.  You will like
that, won't you, Jane?"

"Love it," said Jane, who, however, was by no means certain on that
point, for, although Harriet had great power over her, she was a little
afraid of her.

"Well, you shall come very often these holidays, and perhaps Mother
might be coaxed to take you to the seaside with us; but everything
depends on whether you help me to be school-mother to that boy.  You
will have to do your very best on Sunday.  You'll have to talk to him
about me, and tell him all the wonderful things that I will do for him
when I have him to look after, and you will have--whatever you do--to
frighten him about the others, and most especially frighten him about
Robina.  Now, I think that is all.  I shan't bother about him, you may
be sure, until Saturday.  I think I know my way at last how to spite
Robina, horrid thing!  She is just mad to get that pony.  I know life
will be quite happy again if I can get it from her.  Oh, she is sure of
it--and Mrs Burton is so sure she'll win, that she is not even going to
be given a day to look after Ralph!  Very unfair, I call it."

Jane said nothing, but that night when she lay down in her little bed in
the third form dormitory, her thoughts kept her awake.  She did not much
like the task she had undertaken.  Harriet certainly was a tyrannical
friend, and Harriet was growing less good each minute.  Now that
naughtiness was coming so terribly to the fore, poor little Jane felt in
her heart of hearts that she did not enjoy it.  It was all very well to
burst out laughing during lessons and to play a practical joke on
another girl, and to hide behind doors and spring out upon a frightened
servant or a still more timid schoolfellow, and it was delicious to make
apple-pie beds and to set booby traps and all those sort of things, but
this sort of naughtiness, somehow, was different.

Jane had been impressed by Mrs Burton's words:--"You must be unselfish,
and forbearing, and thoughtful for others, and all these attributes will
be good for your character, and will help you to be true women
by-and-by."  Above all, Jane was struck with what Mrs Burton had said
about these things being better than beauty, or riches, or talent, for
these things were the best of all, and would stay with a girl and would
help her through her life, and--and--help her after death.  Jane was
very frightened of death.  The thought of it came to her sometimes in
the middle of the night, but she always pushed it out of sight.  Now,
however, Mrs Burton spoke of something which would help her even after
that had taken place.  She shivered in her little bed.  She did not at
all like the task which was put upon her.

Meanwhile, things went apparently well in the school.  Robina was as
bright as ever on the next morning, and just as clever over her lessons,
and just as apparently indifferent to her fellow-pupils.  She had to all
appearance forgotten the words she said to Harriet on the previous
night.  She talked cheerfully to Harriet.  Harriet was forced to reply
in the same tone.  Afterwards the girls played in the garden, as they
had done on the day before; but Harriet and Jane did not meet as they
had previously arranged in the paddock.  It was not necessary to meet,
they both felt, for something had occurred since then, and their course
was in a measure plain.  Curly Pate was with them, too, and so were the
other little children.  The only one who was absent was Frederica; she
and Ralph were not to be seen.

Late that night Frederica came up to the dormitory, and went to bed as
usual.  All the others clustered round her.

"Well--well," they said, "could you manage?  Aren't you dead tired?
What sort is he, really?  Oh, do say if you think you have any chance of
getting the pony!"

"I can say nothing--it wouldn't be fair," said Frederica.  "Mrs Burton
doesn't wish any one of the girls on her trial to help the others by
saying things.  I have had a good day, I think, and am tired, and should
like to go to sleep.  Patience, you are to go to Ralph's nursery at
seven o'clock to-morrow morning."

The next day was Thursday, and Thursday was Patience Chetwold's day.  It
passed very much as Wednesday had done, only that Jane looked rather
miserable, and Harriet took no notice of her at all.  Friday was Rose
Amberley's day, and on that day the girls heard--or fancied they heard--
peals of laughter in the distance.  They were all rather anxious, for
Rose was so remarkably nice, and had quite a way with little children.
Before Robina came she had shared the honours with her elder sister,
Constance, of being the babies' favourite.  The girls began to say
amongst themselves that Rose would carry off the prize, and that, on the
whole, they would like her to have it, for she was so kind and nice, and
so remarkably pretty.

It was on the evening of Friday that Jane ran up to Harriet, pulled her
by her arm, and said in a low tone:--

"I want to walk with you in the paddock."

"Now, what's up?" said Harriet crossly.

"Come," said Jane.

Jane's black eyes were shining, and her short black hair resembled a mop
more than ever, and her little round figure seemed rounder.  There was
quite an agitation about Jane which made her roundness and queer short
hair and round black eyes look too comical for words; at least, this was
what Harriet said, when she found herself with her friend in the
paddock.  Harriet was such a contrast to Jane, and looked more lanky and
more pale than ever on this occasion.

"Now--what is up?" she said.  "You do look precisely like a fat
Christmas goose just before he is going to be killed for Christmas
dinner.  What _is_ up with you now?"

"Only that--I--I--mean--I don't want to be the school-mother."

Harriet burst into a peal of laughter.  "Isn't it a case of sour
grapes?" she said.  "You just know you can't be the school-mother, so
you think you'll cover your defeat by saying that sort of thing."

"I want to say more," whispered Jane.  "I am frightened to do what you
want; I mean I am frightened to say what isn't true about the others--
and, particularly, about Robina.  I don't want to do it; I thought I
would tell you."

"I always knew you were a sneak," said Harriet, "but please yourself, of
course.  It won't be very nice for you when I send you to Coventry."

"What do you mean by sending to Coventry?" asked Jane.

"You _are_ a silly!  You are frightfully ugly, and you have no brains at
all.  Coventry means that I won't speak to you; and what's more, I'll
get a lot more girls in the school not to speak to you.  Perhaps you
won't enjoy that--but please yourself, I don't care."

"Harriet, you _are_ cross!  You know, you know quite well that I would
please you if I could.  But--but I do want to be the sort of girl Mrs
Burton spoke about."

"Oh, you are turning goody-goody!" said Harriet.  "Then, indeed, I have
no further use of you.  I am going to take up Vivian Amberley.  She is
quite a nice little thing--very different from you."

Jane gave utterance to a very quick sigh.  Vivian was perhaps the girl
in the third form who had the weakest character.  She was not like her
two elder sisters: she could be very good with good girls and quite
naughty with girls who were not good.  Jane had always known this fact,
and had always been terribly afraid that Harriet would make use of
Vivian, and turn her to her own purposes.  In that case, of course,
Harriet would never speak to poor Jane again; and Jane did care for her
and could be intensely jealous about her.  So now she said:--

"I know you are very clever, Harriet, and I suppose you do know best;
only I wish that little voice inside of me wouldn't talk so loud.  It
keeps me awake at nights, and I get frightened; but if you really,
really think--"

"I think nothing!" said Harriet crossly.  "Please yourself.  Vivian will
help me, if you won't.  I will know what you have done by Monday
morning.  You can do exactly as you please; and now don't keep me, for I
have got to finish learning my piece to recite on Sunday afternoon."

Book 1--CHAPTER SIX.

BEGUILED BY PROMISES.

There was no doubt that Harriet was clever, but even she felt a little
nervous when she went into Ralph's bedroom to awaken him on Saturday
morning.

Ralph had a sweet little room to sleep in.  It opened into Miss Ford's,
but the door between the two was shut; for Ralph's whole endeavour was
to be a very manly boy, and manly boys always liked best to sleep alone.
He looked very pretty indeed, now, in his sleep, his mop of brown curls
pushed back from his forehead, the long black lashes lying like a cloud
on his rounded cheeks; his red, red lips slightly parted, a smile on his
little face.  But Harriet saw no beauty in the sleeping boy.

"Little tiresome thing!" she murmured under her breath.  "If it wasn't
for that pony and my determination to win the prize over Robina,
wouldn't I give him a time to-day!"

But the pony was worth winning, and Harriet was clever.  She bent down
over Ralph, and touched him gently on his arm.  He woke with a start,
looked at Harriet, coloured brightly, and then said:--

"What's up?"

"Time for you to rise," said Harriet.  "I am your school-mother for
to-day."

"Oh," said Ralph.  His face turned a little pale, but he did not start.

"You can lie in bed as long as ever you like," said Harriet; "I don't
care; I'm not going to tell on you; you may be as naughty as you please
to-day--you needn't do any single thing except just what you like."

"Needn't I, really?" said the boy.

"Of course, you needn't," said Harriet.  "Why should you bother to be
good?"

"But Father likes me to be good," said Ralph; "and--and--Mrs Burton
does.  I love Mrs Burton, don't you?"

Harriet longed to say "No," but, shutting up her lips, she nodded her
head.

"You are the girl who was so horrid and rude to me the other day," said
Ralph; "you slapped me on my cheek."

"And you beat me," said Harriet.

Ralph's eyes began to twinkle.

"So we're quits," said Harriet.  "Let's shake hands; let's be pals."

"It's nice of you to forgive," said Ralph.

"Oh, that's nothing," replied Harriet.  "If you but knew me, you'd
consider that I am quite the nicest girl in the school."

"Are you really?"

"Yes; but what do you think, after all, of getting up?  I have such a
wonderful plan of spending our day together."

"Have you?" said Ralph.

"A delicious plan; you can't guess how you will enjoy yourself."

"Can't I, really?"

"Hadn't you better get up.  You can wash yourself, you know."

"Oh, I never washed myself yet," said Ralph.

"Well, you'll have to begin some time.  I'll sit and stare out of the
window, and you can pop into your tub, and have a good splash; I don't
care a bit if you wet the floor; manly boys can't be always thinking of
those sort of things.  Now, then, up you get, and I'll stare out of the
window."

Harriet suited the action to the word.  Ralph saw a long, narrow back
and very thin light hair only partly concealing it.  He observed that
the lanky little figure sat very still.  He felt impressed, much more
impressed than he had been when kind Frederica and unselfish Patience,
and even pretty, pretty Rose Amberley had been his school-mothers.  They
had been commonplace--quite nice, of course, but nothing special.  The
lanky person was not commonplace.

He hopped up with a little shout, washed and dressed himself after a
fashion, and then went up to Harriet.

"Well, pal," she said, just glancing at him, "are you ready?"

"Quite," said Ralph.  "I like you to call me your pal.  You're a very
big girl compared to me, aren't you?"

"You're not a girl at all," said Harriet; "you're a very manly boy, and
you're awfully pretty; don't you know that you are very pretty?"

"No," said Ralph, turning scarlet, "and boys ought not to be pretty; I
hate that."

"Well, then, you're handsome.  I'll show you your face in the glass
presently.  But come down now.  I am allowed to do just what I like with
you to-day, and we're going to have such a good time!"

The beginning of the good time consisted in having a real picnic
breakfast out of doors.  Ralph and Harriet collected twigs and boiled
the kettle in one corner of the paddock.  It didn't matter to Harriet
that the paddock was rather damp and cold at this hour, and it certainly
did not matter to Ralph, who was wildly excited, and quite forgot
everything else in the world while he was trying to light the dry wood.
Really, Harriet was nice; she did not even mind his having matches.

"They never allowed me to have matches before I came here."

"You can put them in your pocket, if you like," said Harriet.  "Manly
boys like you should not be kept under.  You wouldn't burn yourself on
purpose, would you?"

"Of course not."

"Have you a knife of your own?"

"No; Father says I'm rather young."

"But you're not; I'll give you a knife if you like.  I have an old rusty
one upstairs with a broken blade.  You shall have it."

"Thanks aw-filly!" said Ralph.  "But, perhaps," he added, after a
minute's pause.  "I had best not have it, for Father would not like me
to."

"Oh, please yourself," said Harriet.  "Have you had enough breakfast?"

"Yes, thank you awfully, and it was _so_ good.  I suppose," added Ralph,
a little timidly, "we'd best begin my lessons now.  I hate reading to
myself, but I suppose I must learn."

"You needn't learn from me," said Harriet.  "I'm not going to give you
any lessons."

"Oh--but--oughtn't you to?"

"Whether I ought to or not, I don't mean to," said Harriet.  "Now, look
here, what shall we do with ourselves?"

"I don't know," said Ralph, who was so excited and interested that he
leaned up against Harriet, who would have given worlds to push him away,
but did not dare.

"You're very nice, really, truly," he said, and he touched her lank hair
with his little brown hand.

"Yes, am I not nice?" said Harriet, smiling at him.  "Now, if you were
to choose me for your school-mother, you would have a jolly time."

"Am I to choose who I like?" said Ralph.

"Of course, you are.  We are all trying our hands on you; but you are to
make your own choice.  Didn't the other girls tell you?"

"No."

"Do you like being with the others?"

"They were _very_ kind," said Ralph.

"Did you have a picnic breakfast with them?"

"Oh, no."

"If I were your school-mother," said Harriet, after a pause, "we would
have one every day, and--and--no lessons; and you might play with
matches, and you might have a pop-gun, and there's something else we
would do."

"Oh, what is it?"

"We'd go and see the gipsies."

"But I am frightened of gipsies," said Ralph.  As he spoke he pressed a
little nearer to Harriet.  "Are there gipsies about?"

"There are some gipsies living two fields off--you look almost like a
gipsy boy yourself, you are so dark.  There are a lot of little brown
babies rolling about on the grass, and big brown men, and big brown
women, and there are dogs, and a donkey, and an old horse; but the most
wonderful thing of all is the house on wheels."

"The house on wheels?" said Ralph.

"Yes, the old horse draws it, and the gipsies live inside; oh, it is
wonderful!"

"Aren't gipsies very wicked people?"

"Wicked?" said Harriet.  "They're the most lovely people in all the
world.  I can't take you to see them to-day, but if I were your
school-mother, we would manage to slip off and have a good time with
them.  They love little brown boys like you, and you would love them.
Oh, you don't know what a gipsy is!  Frightened of them, are you?  Well,
I'll tell you a story of what they did for me when I ran away once and
stayed with them for a whole night.  I never had such a good time in all
my life."

Harriet made up a story out of her head.  It is true she had once been
for a very frightened half-hour with some gipsies on the common nearest
to her father's house; but that time now was changed into something
quite fairy-like.

Ralph listened with his eyes shining, his lips apart, and his breath
coming fast.

"Oh, I didn't know they were like that," he said.  "Let us go now, now;
don't put it off, please; let's come this very instant-minute."

"No," said Harriet firmly.  "I could not possibly take you to-day.  But
I will manage it if you choose me for your school-mother.  Of course,
you won't choose me.  I know who you'll choose."

"Who?" asked Ralph.

"That Robina girl."

"Who?" asked Ralph.

"Oh, that creature who came for you and Curly Pate when you were sent
for, to say good-bye to your father."

"Is _she_ Robina?" asked Ralph.  "Oh, I like her so much!"

"That is because you don't know her.  Shall I tell you some things about
her?"

"Would it be right?" asked Ralph.

"You needn't listen if you don't like," replied Harriet.  "You can go to
the other side of the paddock.  I am going to say them aloud, whether
you listen or not."

Harriet instantly crossed her hands on her lap, and began saying in a
chanting tone:--

"Robina was so naughty at home, and made such a dreadful noise in the
room with her poor sick mother that she had to be sent away.  She was
sent here to this school, and since she came all the rest of us are
dreadfully unhappy, for, although she looks kind, she is not a bit kind;
she is the sort of girl who doesn't obey.  She was sent away from home
because she was so disobedient--"

"Oh, don't!" said Ralph suddenly.

"Why--what is the matter?" said Harriet.  "Were you listening?"

"I couldn't help myself; you spoke so loud.  I didn't want to, but you
did speak very loud.  Why do you say those horrid things about her?"

"They are true," said Harriet.  "I don't mean to be unkind to her.  I
wouldn't be unkind to anybody, but, at the same time, I want to warn you
in case you are taken in by her ways and choose her as your
school-mother."

Ralph was quite silent.  After a minute he said in an altered voice:

"Let's do something now--what shall we?"

Harriet suggested that they should visit the farmyard at the back of the
house and coax Jim, the groom, to let them ride on some of the horses.
This, of course, was most fascinating, and no sooner had it been thought
of than it was done.  The ride was followed by something still more
exciting.  Jim was going to drive to the nearest town with the spring
cart, and he offered to take the two children with him.

Harriet no sooner heard this proposal than she accepted it, and she and
Ralph had a glorious drive to town.  There she spent sixpence--all the
money she possessed--on different sweetmeats.

"I wish I had some more," she said.  "I'd give you all my money--I
would, indeed!"

"There are quite enough sweeties there," said Ralph; "but if you really
want to buy other things, Harriet, I have got money."

"Have you?  Let's see what you've got," said Harriet.

Ralph put his hand into his breeches pocket, and took out a handful of
coppers, a shilling, and two sixpences.

"Here's lots," he said.  "Isn't it lots, Harriet?"

"Yes," said Harriet, looking at it greedily.  "We might buy a picnic tea
for ourselves out of that."

"Oh! might we?" said Ralph.  "How per-fect-ly bee-tttiful!"

The picnic tea was purchased; it was not wholesome.  The children went
back.  Ralph and Harriet had their dinner all alone, for during the
trial day the arrangement was that the rest of the school children were
not to interfere.  Afterwards, they had their picnic tea out of doors,
and after that was over, Harriet again spoke of the gipsies, and the
delight of knowing them, and the certain fact that they would give them
tea, or, perhaps, dinner, in the wonderful house on wheels, and the
still more certain fact that Ralph would not be a true boy until he had
visited the gipsies with Harriet.

On the whole, Harriet considered that her trial day was a success.  It
was an untidy, flushed, and not a healthy little boy who crept rather
late into bed that night, and whom Harriet undressed without troubling
herself whether he was washed too carefully or his hair brushed or not.
Even to his cry that he had just a _weeny, teeny_ pain, and that he did
not feel _quite_ quite well, she made no response.  But when she was
bidding him good-night, she said:--

"Remember the gipsies, and I am the sort of girl who always keeps her
word."

"Good-night, dear, dear Harriet!" said the little fellow.  "I have had
quite a lovely day!"

After Harriet went away, it was some time before Ralph fell asleep.  Of
course, he was a manly boy, and he did not mind a bit being alone, and
it was nice, very nice, to have a little room all to himself.  But,
notwithstanding his bravery, and his fixed determination not to be
lonely without Father, and never to cry even the smallest tear, there
was an ache in his heart.  He kept on thinking so much of his
school-mother that he could not sleep.  The girls in the school were
very nice.  Rose had been sweet to him, so had Frederica, so had
Patience, and his school-mother of the past day--oh, she had been the
most exciting of all.  She was not a bit a pretty girl--in his heart of
hearts he thought her rather ugly; but she had done things none of the
others had done.  She had given him adventures--that breakfast out of
doors, a box of matches to keep in his own pocket; that ride on
Firefly's back--Firefly was a very spirited pony--and the girl had
looked on admiringly while Ralph kept his seat; and then the drive to
town, and the spending of all Harriet's money on sweetmeats and of all
Ralph's money on a picnic tea.  Oh, yes; he had had a good day, very
good, and there had been no lessons.

Ralph could not honestly say that he loved lessons.  He used to pretend
he did, for he hated to grumble about things, and manly boys learned
things--at least, so his father used to say.  Manly boys always knew how
to read, and they spelt words properly, and they wrote neat, good hands,
and they learned, too, how to add up long, terrible rows of figures.
All these things were necessary if a boy was to be manly and wise.
Ralph knew perfectly well that he must go through with these unpleasant
things.  Nevertheless, he had to own that he did not like them.  This
school-mother, if he were to select her, would not be very particular
about his reading aloud, and spelling properly, and working at his sums.
Oh, no, he would have a good time with her; matches in his pocket,
knives to play with--although his father did not like him to have
knives--and, above all things, such a wonderful, glorious hope was held
out to him!  They would go away together, he and his school-mother, to
see the gipsies.  They would climb up the steps into that house on
wheels; and, perhaps--perhaps--it would move, and they would feel it
moving, and the brown babies would roll about on the grass at his feet,
and the brown men and women would talk to him.

Harriet had spoken much to him about the delights of gipsy life.  Ralph
felt that he would give a great deal to taste it for himself.  He tossed
from side to side of his little bed, and presently he sat up, his cheeks
flushed, his hair tumbled.  "What would Father say to all this?  Father
liked boys to do lessons, and to lead orderly lives, and--"

"Oh, Father!" sobbed the child.  He could not help crying just a little
bit.  He wanted his father more than anything in all the world just
then; yes, although his heart was full of Harriet and her proposal to
visit the gipsies.

Book 1--CHAPTER SEVEN.

THE CHOICE.

The three remaining days of trial of the school-mothers went quickly by.
There was suppressed excitement all over the third form.  Harriet alone
would not be induced to talk on the subject.  She put on quite a good
little air.

"No," she said, "don't let's worry over the thing.  Ralph will make his
own choice.  He is quite a nice little boy.  He has a great deal of go
in him, but he will make his own choice, whatever we say."

Then Harriet would bend over her book, and pretend to be very
industrious; while all the time she was watching Robina.

Robina had the wonderful faculty of jumping at conclusions.  She caught
at the sense of a thing in a flash.  She had also an amazing memory.  It
was not the least trouble to Robina to learn a long poem by heart.  She
also remembered every single word told her by her teachers.  She had
never before been taught in the manner she was taught at school; but
already she was amassing knowledge in a marvellous way.  Notwithstanding
all Harriet's efforts, Robina, without the slightest trouble, kept at
the head of the class.  Every day Harriet tried to supplant her, or,
rather, to get back her old position, but every single day she tried in
vain.  Robina kept her place in class, and the other girls now openly
said to Harriet that she had not a chance.

"You have met your master," they said, "and you may as well accept the
position at once."

It was by no means in Harriet's nature to accept any such position, and
her lanky little figure and pale face seemed to bristle all over with
suppressed passion when she was addressed in this way.

On the night before Ralph was to make his decision with regard to the
school-mothers, Harriet said a word to Jane.

"By this time to-morrow," said Harriet, "we shall know everything."

"Oh, yes; I suppose so," said Jane.  Then she added quickly: "I wish he
had not come to the school."

"Who do you mean by that?" asked Harriet.

"Ralph--I wish he had not come."

"It can't make any matter to you," said Harriet.

"It does," said Jane.  "He is a nice little boy.  I like him just
awfully.  He won't be happy with you."

"What do you mean by that?" said Harriet.

Jane was silent.

"You think," said Harriet, in a low tone, "that I am sure to be selected
by Mrs Burton as his school-mother?"

Jane nodded her head.  Her little round face was quite flushed, and her
black eyes were shining.

"Did he say anything to you," asked Harriet, in great excitement.  Jane
nodded.  Harriet felt her heart beating fast.  She suddenly put her
long, thin arm round Jane's neck, drew her up to her, and kissed her.

"Then you have helped me," she said.  "I knew you would.  I won't forget
it when the holidays come."

Just then some other girls appeared in view, and Jane and Harriet had to
separate.  The other girls walked on arm-in-arm.  They consisted of Rose
and Vivian Amberley, Patience Chetwold and Robina.  Robina was not quite
_au fait_ to the ins and outs of the school.  She still lived more or
less in a world of her own.  Now, she was rather surprised when Vivian,
who was leaning on her arm, gave it a violent tug, and said in a
smothered voice, which only reached Robina's ears:

"Oh, I am quite unhappy!"

This was the sort of remark which could not fail to interest Robina
profoundly.  She had been an only child all her life, and although she
had now and then played with another child, and although the one dream
of her existence was to be surrounded by other children, she had never
enjoyed this pleasure daily and hourly until she came to school.  Robina
was full of faults, but she had a kind and generous nature.  There was
nothing mean about her, and she was, for an only child, absolutely
unselfish.  Vivian's remark in a low tone was not heard by either Rose
or Patience.  Robina took an opportunity to draw the little girl aside,
and to ask her what she meant.

"It's about Ralph," said Vivian.

"What about Ralph?" asked Robina.

"I dare not tell," said Vivian.

"Very well," said Robina; "then there is no use in questioning you."

"But I am very, very unhappy, all the same," said Vivian.

Robina looked at her longingly.  "Sit down," she said suddenly.

They had come to a wooden seat under an old oak tree.  Vivian popped
down at once, but Robina still stood.

"I don't know much about school," said Robina.  "I have not been here
long.  I am not a specially good girl; I was often very troublesome at
home, but I think I know a few things, and perhaps I learnt those things
at home."

"What are they?" asked Vivian.

"I have learned," said Robina, "to know a good girl when I see her.
There are some girls in this school who are not good."

"Oh, yes; oh, yes!" said Vivian.  She turned white, and clasped her
small hands tightly together.

"And there are some girls in this school," proceeded Robina, "who are
not strong," and she fixed her grey eyes on Vivian's face.

"Yes," said Vivian again, falteringly.

"I won't name them," said Robina; "but I will only just say this: that
if I were a weak girl in the school, I'd just make up my mind that I
was.  I would not pretend that I was strong, for instance, and I'd go
and tell anything that made me unhappy to the person who ought to know."

"Oh, but you wouldn't, if you were me," said Vivian, suddenly speaking
in great excitement.

"Does the cap fit?" asked Robina.

"Yes, yes," answered Vivian; "it fits.  But I can't, I can't!"

"I haven't the least idea what is the matter," said Robina; "but you are
unhappy, for you have said so, and you are weak, not strong, for you
admit it and, anyhow, I know.  Now, being weak in a school like this,
where there are some girls who are not good, you have no chance at all,
unless you go to someone stronger than yourself to help you."

"Who ought I to go to?" asked Vivian, trembling very much.

"You ought to go to some of your teachers."

"Oh, I can't do that--it would be quite too dreadful; you don't know
what they would say of me."

"That is what you _ought_ to do," said Robina; "but if you haven't
courage for that, you ought to go to one of your school-fellows.  You
have your two sisters."

"They are no good at all; they are not, really."  Robina was silent for
a minute.  Then she said:--

"Well, I am of some good, I suppose, and I think, on the whole, I am
just a tiny bit strong."

"Oh, you are, you are," said Vivian.  "You are just wonderful."

"Well, then, you can come to me."

"But they'll call me a tell-tale-tit; they will, they will.  You don't
know, you can't know."

"I tell you what you will do," said Robina.  "You will take my hand, and
you and I together will go and stand before the girls who are making you
unhappy.  You will say: `I can't stand this, and I am going to tell
Robina, and Robina will help me to decide as to what is best to be
done.'  You won't be mean if you do that, Vivian, for they will
understand.  That is what you ought to do.  Now, I have told you."

"I ought, but I can't," said Vivian.  She wriggled in her seat.
Suddenly she sprang up, caught hold of Robina's hands, and kissed them.
But Robina wrenched them away.

"No, no; don't do that," she said.  "I hate being kissed by cowards."

She turned and left Vivian.  The poor girl had never felt so small and
abject in all her life, for poor Vivian was more or less in the secret.
Not only had Jane explained to Ralph the great advantage of choosing
Harriet as his school-mother, but Vivian had also been forced into the
cause.  She had spent a truly most miserable day, knowing perfectly well
what Harriet's real character was, and yet afraid to do anything but
urge Ralph to choose her as his school-mother during the remainder of
the term.  Alas and alas! what a dreadful thing it was to be a weak
girl, and how Robina despised her; and how strong Robina seemed herself,
and what would not Vivian give in all the wide world to have Robina's
strength, and to follow the advice which she had given.

Immediately after breakfast the next day Mrs Burton called the eight
girls of the third form into her parlour.  When they had all assembled,
she said to them:

"You have had your day of trial each, with the exception of Robina, whom
it was more fair not to count.  I may as well tell you frankly that I
think Robina will be elected as Ralph's school-mother, and I may as
well, also, tell you now that I shall be glad if that is the ease.  At
the same time I may be mistaken."

There came a sort of gasp from several of the girls.  Harriet was
standing quite in the background.  Her face was quite pale.  She felt
her heart beating almost to suffocation.  Oh, that pony, with his
side-saddle.  Oh, that habit made to fit so perfectly!  Oh, the joy of
going home in the holidays with such a companion--such an unfailing
source of delight!  Would not Harriet in future be a heroine in her
home?  What would not the others give to be the owner of a real flesh
and blood pony?  She did not mind how low she stooped in order to obtain
it.

Mrs Burton paused, and looked round at the different girls.

"My dears," she said, "I doubt not that you are interested, not,
perhaps, in Ralph for himself, but in the thought of the prize which
Ralph's father, Mr Durrant, has offered you.  I have my own ideas with
regard to that prize; but Mr Durrant wishes you to have it, and there
is nothing more to be said.  The girl whom little Ralph himself selects
as his school-mother will at the end of the term be the possessor of the
pony--that is, always provided that she fulfills her duties to my
perfect satisfaction.  When Ralph has made his choice, he must, of
course, abide by it, unless something quite out of the common occurs;
but I must assure you in advance, my dear girls, that the post of
school-mother will be no sinecure.  The girl who has charge of Ralph
must be patient and remember that he is only a very little boy.  He will
be necessarily thrown a great deal with the younger children, and the
girl who is his school-mother must not only be patient with him, but she
must help him to learn his little lessons.  He must sit by her side at
meals, and every morning she must rise a little earlier than usual in
order to dress him, and every evening she must leave the playground in
order to put him to bed.  It will soon be perceived whether he is happy
or not in her company.  Now, I think I have said all that is necessary,
and Ralph himself shall come in and decide."

Mrs Burton rang a little silver bell which stood on the table.  Miss
Ford, the mistress who had the charge of the small children, immediately
appeared.

"Will you bring Ralph Durrant into the room?" said Mrs Burton.

A minute later, Ralph marched in.  He looked his very manliest.  Every
girl in the form felt her heart going pit-a-pat as she watched him.  He
was wearing a little suit of white on this warm day, but there was a
crimson tie fastening his collar.  Nothing could have been sweeter than
his dress, and no little face in all the world could have looked more
eager and lovely.  He had the perfect self-possession of a very young
child.  He came straight up to Mrs Burton, holding out his hand.

"Good morning, Mrs Burton," he said.

"Good morning, Ralph, my dear," she replied.  "Will you come and stand
with me, Ralph, up here?"

"Oh, thank you so very much," said Ralph.

He mounted on to the little dais, and Mrs Burton, taking his hand, led
him forward.

"You see all these girls, Ralph," she said.  "They are all your great
friends, are they not?"

"Oh, yes!" said Ralph.  He looked eagerly from one face to the other.
To begin with, there was Robina.  He had not seen her for a week.  She
was standing very erect; her face was quite calm and strong and kind.
She looked full at Ralph, but with no special pleading in her eyes.  She
would have liked to be his school-mother, and she wanted the pony very
much; but not for worlds would she condescend to plead with him.  A
great deal can be conveyed by the glance of an eye, and Robina's eyes
were of the sort that could convey any number of messages to the
sensitive, warm heart of a little child.  But at the present moment they
were dumb.  Ralph looked past her.

"Here are all your kind friends," said Mrs Burton.  "You know Robina
Starling.  This is Robina.  You remember how very kind she was to you
and Curly Pate on the day you arrived.  She helped you during that hard
time when your father went away."

"And I didn't cry not one tear," said Ralph, giving an eager glance at
Mrs Burton, and then looking back at Robina.  Oh, if only her eyes had
said then: "Come to me," he would have chosen her above all the others.
But the proud eyes were dumb.

"Yes," continued Mrs Burton, "this is Robina Starling, your great
friend.  And here comes Frederica.  You had, I know, a very pleasant day
with her."

"Very pleasant," said Ralph.  "Good morning, Frederica," he added,
saying the words in a clear, sweet little voice.

"And this is Patience, Frederica's sister."  Patience smiled at him
quite broadly, and he smiled back at her just as though they held a
secret between them, and the secret was very good fun.

"And this is Rose.  You cannot forget how happy you were with Rose."

"Oh, yes, of course, I was," said Ralph.  "Good morning, Rose."

"Good morning, dear," said Rose.

"And this is," said Mrs Burton, slightly altering her voice, as though
it were scarcely worth while to speak of Harriet, "this is Harriet.  You
spent Saturday with Harriet."

Ralph coloured.  All the girls noticed how a flame of red swept over his
little face.  His eyes grew dark.  He looked full at Harriet, as though
she fascinated him.

"And this is Jane Bush.  And now we come to Cecil Amberley.  I am sure
Cecil would be kind to any little boy."

"Yes, oh, yes," said Ralph.

"And last but not least, here is Vivian.  You were with Vivian
yesterday, don't you remember?"

"I remember," said Ralph.

"Then, my dear little boy, you are acquainted with every girl in the
third form.  Now, listen to me.  It is your dear father's wish that one
of these girls should take, as far as possible, the place of a mother to
you during the remainder of the term.  For three weeks, Ralph, until
your father returns, you will be given over to the special care of one
of these girls; and your father wishes you, as being, he considers, a
very wise little boy, to choose your school-mother yourself.  Having
made a choice, you must abide by it, unless I personally interfere.
That I shall not do except under extreme circumstances.  Now, my boy,
you have no cause to be afraid.  Choose boldly the girl you like best,
the girl with whom you will be happiest.  Remember, Robina was your
oldest friend, and Vivian your newest friend; the others came between.
Look well at them all, and make your choice, as a wise little boy
should."

Again Ralph looked full at Robina, and again Robina knew that her eyes
had but to say: "Come," and not all the gipsies in all the world, nor
all the picnic teas and breakfasts and boxes of matches in a little
boy's pocket, and possible knives--the temptation to possess which a
little boy might succumb to--could have influenced Ralph in the very
least.  But alack and alas! for all that was to follow: those eyes still
were dumb.  So Ralph's own brown eyes wandered past Robina and rested,
without any special desire or longing in them, on Frederica's face, and
past Frederica to Patience, and then they lingered and seemed to dilate,
and the whole little face trembled as the boy gazed at Harriet.  But
even now he was wise, and would not make his choice too hastily; for,
past Harriet, his eyes travelled to Jane, who looked down, and turned
white and pink, and from Jane he gazed at Cecil, who was all unconscious
and looked full back at him, being quite certain in her heart of hearts
that she would not be the one chosen; and then he looked at Vivian, who,
as a matter of fact, counted nothing at all to him.

His heart beat.  He thought of a hundred things, but most of all at that
moment of not learning to read much, of not troubling himself with
figures, of being the manly sort of boy who would play with fire and not
be burnt, and have knives and not be cut, and, above all things, of a
certain gipsy caravan which was called a house on wheels.  Once again,
his eyes sought those of Harriet; and now she looked boldly at him, and
Ralph looked boldly back at her, and smiled, and, loosing his hold of
Mrs Burton's hand, he said in a loud voice:

"I choose Harriet for my school-mother, because I love her the best of
all."

Book 1--CHAPTER EIGHT.

CONSEQUENCES.

The astonishment which this announcement caused in the school may be
better imagined than described.  Even Mrs Burton was struck dumb for a
minute.  Then she said quietly:

"Harriet, you are the favoured one.  Will you please take Ralph to Miss
Ford, and get her to set him his lessons, and then will you take him
into the third form room, and give him a seat by yourself and attend to
his work in the intervals when you can spare some moments from your own?
I will arrange later on that you have plenty of time to do this.  Now,
my dear, attend to your duties.  You have been elected in a fair field,
and I don't think any favour has been shown, and I congratulate you, and
hope you will be the proud possessor of the prize pony on the day when
you leave school."

The rest of the girls in the form congratulated Harriet also, and she
walked out of Mrs Burton's parlour with her head in the air, holding
Ralph by the hand.  Never had such a moment of intoxicating triumph been
given her before.  She was trembling from head to foot.

"Now we'll have fun, won't we?" whispered Ralph.  "Yes, of course," said
Harriet back.  "But come along at once, Ralph.  We must get your
lessons.  You will be a very good little boy, won't you, and not too
troublesome?"  She longed to add: "I can't stand troublesome children,"
but refrained for the time being.

Miss Ford gave Ralph some easy lessons, telling Harriet where his weak
points lay, and how often he ought to repeat them over to her.

"You must be very particular indeed with regard to his sums," she said.
"These sums in addition and this little one in subtraction must be done
perfectly.  I think that is all for to-day."

Harriet, still holding Ralph's hand, but holding it rather loosely,
marched now in the direction of the third form class-room.  As they were
going there, Ralph spoke:

"I thought--I thought--that--if you were my school-mother, there would
_not_ be sums and things."

"Oh, nonsense!" replied Harriet, rather tartly.  "There must be sums and
_things_, as you call them.  How are you to be wise if you don't learn?"
she continued.  Then, seeing that the colour swept over his face, she
added hastily, "I won't be hard on you, no fear, and when lessons are
over, we'll have great fun."

"Yes, great fun," repeated Ralph.  "The gipsies, perhaps?" he added,
pleadingly.

But Harriet, who had not the least idea in her heart of hearts of
bothering herself with regard to gipsies, was silent.  They entered the
school-room, where all eyes followed them to their seats.  Ralph's
choice was considered too wonderful for words, and more than one girl
felt that the thing had been managed by foul play.  What had occurred
they could not tell, but they were positively certain that Ralph of his
own accord would never have chosen Harriet.

Meanwhile, lessons went on, and Ralph struggled over tasks which Robina
or any other girl in the form would have rendered easy and pleasant for
him, but which Harriet did not trouble herself to think about.

"Don't bother!" she whispered once quite crossly, when he pulled her
sleeve.

Towards the end of the morning it was with great difficulty that the
little boy could keep back his tears.  Of course, he had made a splendid
choice, and Harriet was delightful; but, still--but, still--how he _did_
wish he knew how to take nine from seven!  Nine would not go from seven
because seven wasn't as much as nine.  Oh, how was it done?  Then there
was six from five.  He came to the conclusion at last that sums were not
meant for little boys; it was beyond the power of the human brain to
manage sums; not even his own father could take six from five.  He began
in his restlessness to tear up paper, making five little pieces, and
then six little pieces, and wondering how he could ever take the greater
out of the less.

"Harriet," he whispered at last, tugging at her arm, "it can't be done;
see for yourself."

"Don't bother," whispered Harriet again.  But then she saw Robina's eyes
fixed on her face, and, suddenly recovering herself, bent down over
Ralph.

"What _is_ the matter, you little troublesome thing?" she said.

"I can't take six from five," answered the boy.

"Oh, you goose!" said Harriet; "borrow ten.  Now, then, peg away."

What Harriet meant was Greek to Ralph.  "Borrow ten?" he murmured to
himself, "borrow ten?"

It was a very hot day, and Ralph, try as he would, could not borrow ten.
There was no one to borrow it from.  The windows were open at the
opposite side of the great room, and a bee came in and sailed lazily
round.  The bee, in his velvety brown coat, was watched by a pair of
eyes as soft, as brown as his own velvet coat.  The bee never borrowed
ten, that was certain; no more could he.  Oh, he was sleepy, and lessons
were horrid, and sums were the worst of all.  And why, why, why did not
his school-mother really help him?

He was just dropping off to sleep when a brisk voice said in his ear:

"What is the matter, Ralph?"  He looked round, and there was Robina.

"I am sleepy," said Ralph.  "It's because I can't borrow ten.  Will you
lend it to me?"

Robina bent down over the slate, where poor little Ralph was making a
muddle of his sums.

"This is the way you do it," she said.

She explained so simply; the child understood.  His eyes brightened.

"Oh, thank you, thank you!" he answered.  "Why, it's quite nice now,
quite nice."

"Well, you won't forget another time," said Robina.  She had to go back
to her own seat.  She took care in doing so not to glance at Harriet.

At last school time was over, and the young people went into the
gardens.  Ralph now felt happy once more.  His idea was that Harriet--
dear, kind, fascinating Harriet, who had made him so intensely happy on
the day when she had been his trial school-mother--would now take him
all away by himself.  She would sit somewhere under a tree, and get him
to sit by her side, and tell him her plans.  These plans must surely
include a picnic tea and a visit to the gipsies.  Ralph felt now that
every desire in his life was centred round the gipsies.

"Come, Harriet," he said, tugging at her sleeve, "come away, please."

"What's the matter?" asked Harriet.

"Why--we want to be all by our lones," said Ralph.  "We have such lots
to talk about!"

Harriet looked down at him.  She looked down at a little boy, with
flushed cheeks and lovely eyes and a tremulous, rosy mouth, and a little
face all full of love and soul and feeling.  But it was not given to
Harriet, even for a minute, to see this little boy as he really was.
She only saw _through_ him a pony--a flesh and blood pony, with its
side-saddle; and she saw a girl with a perfectly-fitting habit who owned
the pony, and this girl was herself.

"Well," she said a little crossly, for she had a great deal to do that
afternoon, and meant to have a right good time at a great picnic where
all the girls were going, and where, of course, she would be, in honour
of her triumph that morning, the principal personage.  "Well," she
repeated, "what is it?"

"I have such a lot to say," whispered Ralph.

"Come along here, then, Ralph, and say it.  What do you want?"

"Why, Harriet, I thought--I thought--"

"Now, I tell you what," said Harriet.  "You and I must understand each
other.  You're a very good little boy, and I like you enormously, and
I'll be ever so kind to you.  You don't know what luck you're in to have
chosen me for your school-mother.  I don't know what would have come to
you if you had chosen any of the others.  But you mustn't be selfish,
you know."

"No," said Ralph, winking back a tear, "'course not."

"And there's another thing.  You must never again allow that horrid
girl, Robina, to help you with your sums.  Now, do you hear?  You did
look silly over that sum in subtraction; and, of course, Robina, who
hates me, was watching her opportunity."

"I don't know what opportunity is," said Ralph.

"Oh, well--I can't tell you--you're a baby.  Anyhow, don't do it again,
do you hear?"

"Very well, Harriet," said Ralph.

It was just at that moment, and before a single word could be said with
regard to the afternoon of that half-holiday, and the gipsies and all
the great, great fun which Ralph so looked forward to, that Miss Ford
came up to Harriet, and drew her a little aside.

"Mrs Burton wishes me to say, Harriet, that she will not expect you to
join the picnic to-day on account of Ralph Durrant."

"And why not, pray?" asked Harriet, turning very red.

"Because they are going too far away, and he would not be back in time
for bed, so you are to stay at home to look after him."

"Well, I like that," said Harriet.  "I won't do anything of the kind."

"Oh, you needn't stay, really, Harriet," interrupted Ralph, who gave up
all thought of the gipsies on the spot.  "Do please go, Harriet.  I
don't mind being left."

Harriet looked eagerly at him.

"Don't you?" she said.  "Oh, I am sure you don't; you are a very good
little boy."

"But, I am afraid," said Miss Ford, "that is not the question.  Ralph's
school-mother accepts certain duties, which she must perform, and you
can't go to the picnic, Harriet, for Mrs Burton forbids it.  She says
you are to stay at home and look after Ralph, and make him as happy as
possible."

Harriet, who never denied herself, was suddenly forced to do so, and in
the most disagreeable, unexpected way.  She almost hated Ralph at that
moment.  His brown eyes did not in the least appeal to her, and when he
snuggled to her side, and tried to take her hand, she pushed him almost
roughly away.

"I hate being pawed!" said Harriet.  "You must understand that, Ralph,
if you are to be with me always.  Very well, Miss Ford," she continued,
turning to the teacher.  "I must do what is right, of course."

"Of course, you must," said Miss Ford, and she marched away, saying to
herself that she pitied Ralph, and wondering--as, indeed, everyone else
was wondering--why Harriet had been chosen as his school-mother.

Book 1--CHAPTER NINE.

A VISIT TO THE FAIR.

Almost immediately after early dinner, two waggonettes came up to the
door, and the girls of the sixth form and the girls of the third form,
with their governesses and Mrs Burton herself, started off for a long
and happy day in some distant woods.  They were to visit the ruins of
Chudleigh Castle and go up to the top of Peter's Tower--a celebrated
place in the neighbourhood--and afterwards they were to have tea on the
grass; and, best of all, they need not return home until the moon came
up.

The moonlight drive home would be the most fascinating part of the whole
expedition.  For days and days this picnic to Chudleigh Castle had been
talked about; and Harriet, with the others, had enjoyed it in
anticipation.  Now, she had to stand by, gloomily holding Ralph's hand,
while the carriages were packed with radiant, happy girls, and, what was
still harder, she had to listen to their gay shouts, and, in particular,
to their badinage at her expense.

"I hope you'll enjoy yourself, Harriet," said Rose Amberley.

"I hope you and Ralph will have fun, my dear," said Agnes Winter, one of
the sixth form girls, whom it was a great honour to know, and whom
Harriet secretly adored.  Even her own special chum, Jane, was looking
flushed and pleased--disgustingly flushed and pleased, thought Harriet.
And there was that little weak Vivian giggling in the silly way she
always did, and casting covert glances at her, and, of course, laughing
at her in her sleeve.  And there was that odious Robina, not looking at
her at all, but calmly taking her seat, and making others laugh whenever
she spoke to them.  Oh, it was all distracting, and for the time being
so angry was Harriet that even the prospective pony lost its charm.

At last the waggonettes started on their journey.  The sound of their
wheels ceased to be heard.  Stillness followed commotion; gay laughter
was succeeded by--in Harriet's opinion--a sort of void.  Again Ralph
tugged her arm.

"Now," he said, "now it's gipsies, isn't it?"

"It's nothing of the kind, you horrid, little troublesome thing," said
Harriet.  "I am not going to take you to see the gipsies to-day--no, nor
_any_ day, for the present.  Oh, stop that blubbering, or I'll smack
you."

"You did once before," said Ralph steadily, and he looked her full in
the face, tears arrested in his eyes, and his own colour coming and
going.

Harriet immediately saw that she had gone too far.  She altered her
tone.

"Please forgive me, Ralph," she said.  "I know I am cross; I wanted so
very much to go to that picnic, and I can't because of you."

"I don't understand," said Ralph.  "_I_ wouldn't mind."

"Yes," said Harriet crossly; "that's not the question.  You are
considered a baby, and you must be treated as one."

"I _aren't_ a baby!" said Ralph, in great indignation.  "Father said I
am a real manly boy."

"Well, prove yourself one," said Harriet.  "Don't cry when I speak a
little sharply, and don't worry me about the gipsies.  I will take you
to see them when I can, because I promised to take you; but you're not
to remind me of them, for if you do I'll be very angry."

"I won't ever, ever speak of them again," said Ralph, gulping down a
sob.

"Well, that's all right," said Harriet.  She moved restlessly across the
lawn.  Curly Pate and the other small children were tumbling about on
the grass.  Ralph looked longingly at Curly Pate.  Curly Pate clapped
her pretty hands, and ran to meet him.

"I keen--oo king!" she said.

Harriet stood by restlessly.  How contemptible it all was!  Those silly
little children, that tiresome Miss Ford, the empty house, the empty
gardens, and the pleasure party far away--the pleasure party with some
of its members laughing in their sleeves at her!  Yes, she knew that
fact quite well.  That detestable little Jane was laughing.  She saw the
laughter hidden behind her smug face.  And that horrid Vivian, she was
all one giggle, and last, but not least, there was the detestable
Robina--on this day of all days to laugh at Harriet seemed the final
straw!  She had had her great moment of victory; she had proved to
Robina that she was the favourite--was the chosen one, was the beloved
of the little boy about whom the school chose to make such a fuss.  But
oh, dear! there was reaction after triumph, and this reaction took place
when Harriet found what were the duties imposed upon her by motherhood.
She must take care of her little boy while the others went out
a-pleasuring.

By this time, however, Ralph had forgotten all about her.  He and Curly
Pate had gone away to a little distance.  Curly Pate was on her knees
picking daisies, and Ralph was standing over her, after the fashion of
kings when they choose to govern their queens and give directions.

"Longer stems, Curly; bigger flowers, Curly.  Oh, you silly! not that
one--that one with the red all round, it's broader.  Now, then--_I'll_
show you how to pick them."

"Peese, king! peese!" replied the impatient queen.

Harriet was not interested in the small children, and just at that
moment something occurred.

A girl from the neighbourhood, of the name of Pattie Pyke, was seen
walking down the avenue.  She was the doctor's daughter, and was the
only girl who was ever allowed to come to the school to take lessons.
She joined the third form twice a week for German lessons, but was never
with them during recreation.  In consequence, she was scarcely counted
at all in the school life.  Harriet and she, however, had managed to
take up a sort of acquaintanceship which never until this moment had
developed into friendship.  Pattie was a plain girl, large for her age,
stoutly built, and with a face covered with freckles.  She had small
blue eyes and a snub nose.  Her hair was somewhat inclined to be
carroty, and she had white eyelashes and eyebrows.  Notwithstanding
this, she was a pleasant girl enough, and had plenty of ability.

"Hallo!" she said now, when she saw Harriet.  "Why, I thought, of
course, you'd be off to the picnic!"

"Well, I'm not, you see," answered Harriet ungraciously; "I am here."

Pattie drew nigh.  The real desire of her life was to make friends with
one of the school-girls.  She was always imploring her father to send
her to the school as a boarder, but hitherto he had been deaf to her
entreaties.

"I was coming to the school with a note," said Pattie; "Father told me
to leave it.  I did not think I'd meet one of you.  I am surprised to
see you."

"Well, you need not be.  You were not at school this morning, or you
would know why I am here."

"No, I had a cold, and Father thought I had best not go.  He is so
awfully particular, for fear of my giving anything to the rest of the
girls.  I am better now, but I must not be out long; my throat is rather
sore."

"You look quite well," said Harriet.

"It's only my throat that's a little bad.  Please, do tell me about this
morning."

"And the great triumph for me," said Harriet.  "Ralph, don't go out of
sight!"

She shrieked these words to Ralph, who immediately paused, turned, and
looked at her, then came in her direction, holding Curly Pate's hand.

"Do you see that child?" said Harriet.

"Yes--the little darling!" cried Pattie.  "Little Ralph Durrant.  Father
raves about him; he says that he will be the richest man in England some
day."

"Oh, well," said Harriet; "he is a very troublesome little boy now.
But, nevertheless, I am pleased.  His father has made a most ridiculous
proposal.  He said that Ralph was to choose one of us to be his
school-mother--I can tell you it was thought a great honour--and he
chose me."

"You?" cried Pattie.

"Yes; are you surprised?"

"Oh, no!" answered Pattie; but she was, nevertheless.

"Well, I am the chosen one, and I can tell you I had my triumph.  Those
other girls, especially that new girl, Robina Starling, was sure that
one of them would be cock-o'-the-walk; but not a bit of it--my little
boy chose me."

"That was nice for you," said Pattie; "only I should not have thought
you would have cared to be bothered by a child."

"It's not that," said Harriet, lowering her voice; for, really, under
the circumstances, any sympathiser was better than none.  "A good deal
depends on it.  I will explain to you another time.  Of course, there
are drawbacks.  I have the charge of that small person, and in
consequence can't enjoy myself at the picnic to-day."

"Oh, what a pity!" said Pattie.

"It is, isn't it?"

"And you are all alone this lovely, lovely day?"

"It is true," said Harriet.  "Well, I suppose I must take the rough with
the smooth."

"I tell you what," cried Pattie, in some excitement.  "Couldn't you come
home and have tea with me?  It would be such fun!  You might bring Ralph
with you, you know.  Of course, you would be allowed to come, and it is
only a stone's throw away."

"I wish I could; I'd like it very much," said Harriet.

"Do come," said Pattie.  "We'll manage afterwards to go out and see the
fair in the village."

"Oh.  I am sure I wouldn't be allowed to take Ralph to the fair."

"He need not come; indeed, we wouldn't want him.  We'd manage somehow to
leave him behind; there are lots of people at home to look after him.
Oh, do, do come.  You need not say a word to anybody."

Harriet thought for a minute.  After all, Miss Ford had no control over
her.  Miss Ford had only the charge of the little children; there was no
one's leave to be asked.  She was the school-mother of Ralph.  Of
course, it must never be told, for it was against the strict rules of
the school that any girl should venture out of the grounds without
leave.  It is true that Harriet had gone in the spring cart to town last
week; but, after all, she had got leave to do that, for she had run to
the house to ask for it.  "If Mrs Burton was at home, I know she would
not mind," said Harriet eagerly.  "But I can't ask her leave, as she
isn't here.  If we go, we must be back quite early; we must be back
before old Ford misses us.  That's the nuisance!"

"You can manage that," said Pattie.  "It's early now.  We'll go straight
home, and have tea.  Then Mother or someone will look after that little
Ralph of yours, and you and I will just run down to the fair, and see
what is to be seen.  Do, do come, Harriet!  I should so love to have
you!"

"All right," said Harriet.

She looked around her.  Miss Ford was nowhere in sight.  So much the
better.  Ralph was called sharply back to her side.  He came, Curly Pate
trotting after him.

"I _ont_ my king," called the school baby.

"Then you will do without him," said Harriet roughly.  "Go back to your
play, you little silly.  Run back at once."

Curly Pate burst into loud screams and yells, and Ralph, forgetting his
allegiance to Harriet, flung his arms round her and comforted her
valiantly.

In the midst of this scene, Miss Ford hurried up.

"What is the matter?" she asked.

"Ralph and Pattie and I are going away for a little by ourselves," said
Harriet.  "Curly Pate wants to come with us; but we don't want her."

"Yes, I want her," said Ralph.

"Why can't the child go with you?" asked Miss Ford.

"No, she can't," said Harriet, looking very cross.  "Very well,
darling," said Miss Ford, catching the child in her arms and kissing
her.  "I've got something so nice to show you."

She carried the weeping baby away, and Ralph, with a great pain at his
heart, followed Harriet.  His school-mother!  Oh, yes, she was that.
But did he like her?  He was not sure.  She puzzled him extremely.  She
was not half as interesting as on that wonderful day when she had
devoted herself to him, and told him stories about the gipsies.

As soon as ever Miss Ford had turned the corner, and had carried the
weeping Curly Pate out of sight, Harriet turned to Pattie.

"Now we must be very quick," she said.  "If you don't mind, we will run
all the way."

"Where is we going?" asked Ralph.

"We are going to have a jolly time," replied Harriet.  "Now, Ralph, you
clearly understand; you are going to be put on your honour."

"Yes," said Ralph, looking important; "Father says that sometimes."

"`Your honour' means this," continued Harriet: "You will never tell
anybody what we are doing."

"Course not," replied Ralph.  "I aren't a tell-tale."

"He isn't, either," said Harriet, looking at Pattie.  "He is quite a
good little boy, when he chooses.  Well, then, we are ready, and I hope,
Pattie, you are prepared to give us a very good time."

Pattie answered at once that she was.  In her heart of hearts, however,
she was doubtful.  Her father and mother were poor.  Dr Pyke's practice
was not a large one, and he found it difficult to make both ends meet.
Then, there were numerous little Pykes at home--Pykes of all ages, from
Pattie, whose years numbered twelve, to the baby, who was only three
months old.  It seemed to Pattie that the children swarmed everywhere.
Still, she had a whole shilling stowed away in her purse in the corner
of a drawer in her bedroom, that could be spent at the fair, and it was
grand and delightful to bring a girl from Mrs Burton's to tea with her,
and she also felt sure that little Ralph would have a welcome.

When they reached the house, an ivy-covered house of old-fashioned make,
which stood a little back from the village street, she found the hall
door open.

"Now, then, Harriet, come in," she said, and Harriet and Ralph entered.

An untidy-looking servant was crossing the hall.

"Anastasia," said Pattie, "will you get tea in the drawing-room,
please?"

Anastasia stared at her.

"Indeed, I can't, miss.  Your ma is out, and all the older children have
gone to the park with Miss Fry,"--Miss Fry was the much overworked
nursery governess--"and the missis told me," continued Anastasia, "that
I was to wash the handkerchiefs and things this afternoon.  I have no
time to bring tea into the drawing-room, and why should I do it?  You
always has it in the school-room."

"I'd much rather have tea in the school-room, Pattie," said Harriet.

"And so would I," echoed Ralph.

"You must get your own tea, miss," continued Anastasia, by no means
abashed by the sight of Harriet in her ordinary school frock, and not
particularly struck by the beauty of little Ralph.

"I am ever so sorry," said Pattie, colouring high; "but this is rather
an unfortunate day.  One of our maids is out, and Mother's away; and, in
short--do you greatly mind waiting in the drawing-room while I get the
tea?"

"I don't much care about tea at all," said Harriet, who was not a bit
gracious, and who was rather disgusted with the appearance of Pattie
Pyke's home.  "You needn't bother, as far as I am concerned."

"And I don't want no tea," said Ralph; "I aren't a bit hungry."

He looked pleadingly and sorrowfully at Pattie, as much as to say:
"Please, please, don't trouble."

Poor Pattie, whose face was scarlet with mortification, insisted on
providing a meal.

"You can't come into the school-room," she said a little crossly.  "The
boys do leave it in such a mess.  There is the rabbit-hutch in one
corner, and I know Jim and Davie were washing Smut there this afternoon.
You must come into the drawing-room.  I will manage to get you some
tea.  Don't stare, Anastasia.  Go at once, and see that the kettle is
boiling."

Pattie conducted her guests into a small, very hot drawing-room.  She
then left them, and, after about a quarter of an hour, reappeared with a
tray containing very poor tea and some stale cake.  Oh, how hot was that
little room!  It faced due south, and scarcely a breath of air came
through the open bay window.  Ralph felt very tired; he did not know
why.  He had had a trying morning.  Those sums had worried him, and
Harriet's conduct had also worried him, although he was not aware of
that fact at present.

When the tea had come to an end Harriet said quickly:

"Now, the fun is really going to begin; you and I will hurry off to the
fair, Pattie.  I can't stay late, as your know, for I must smuggle Ralph
back before Miss Ford misses him.  You will stay quietly here, Ralph.
You will be a good boy?  I couldn't take you to the fair, even if I
wished it; for, in the first place, I haven't any money."

"But I have a shilling--a whole shilling," said Pattie, feeling all of a
sudden quite grand and important.

"I am very sorry," continued Harriet, speaking in a firm voice; "but I
shall be obliged to borrow my entrance money from you, Pattie.  I will
pay you next week, when my pocket-money comes in.  There will be enough
for us both to go in and also to have a turn on the merry-go-round--"

"And we must see the fat lady and the man with two heads," said Pattie.

"But why mustn't I see them, too?" asked Ralph, whose little face was
scarlet now, and his voice quite choky with anger and disappointment.

"No, you mustn't, Ralph," said Harriet.  "And now I will tell you why!
I, your mother, don't choose it.  You have got to obey me, you know.  I
am a big girl, and you are a very little boy; you must stay here
quietly, and wait for me.  I will return for you before long.  Now, be a
good child, and don't cry: it is very babyish to cry."

Ralph stood quite still.  The scarlet flush had faded from his face.
After a minute, he said:

"Course it's babyish, and I aren't crying."

"Then that is all right," said Harriet.  "Stay here till I fetch you.
Come, Pattie."

The two little girls left the room.

Book 1--CHAPTER TEN.

THE GIPSIES.

How hot was that drawing-room to the tired little boy!  His head quite
ached, he did not know why; he could not understand his own sensations.
There was a very ugly look-out, too, for the bay window opened into a
tiny garden, which was full now of clothes hanging on lines and flapping
in what little breeze there was.  Ralph could not see anything beyond
the white line of clothes.

He went to the window, half inclined to go into the garden; but, as it
was so uninviting, he did not venture.  He returned to the ugly room,
and looked at what was left of the make-shift tea.  It certainly was
hard that he had not been allowed to go to the fair.  He would so have
liked to have a ride on the merry-go-round, and to see the fat lady and
the man with two heads.  How was it possible for anyone to have two
heads?  He felt his own little soft neck, and wondered where the other
head could appear.  He sat down very thoughtfully to consider this
problem.  It was really more difficult than borrowing ten, and much,
_much_ more interesting.  It seemed to him even more interesting than
seeing gipsies: the brown, brown gipsies, with their house on wheels,
had none of them two heads.  He would love beyond anything to gaze at
the person who possessed such treasures.

Certainly his school-mother was not too kind.  He could not understand
her to-day, but, having chosen her, he felt somehow that it was his
bounden duty to be as good as possible, and to think as kindly as
possible about her.  So he very determinedly shut away from his little
mind all unkind thoughts with regard to Harriet.  Of course, he was a
troublesome little boy, and he ought to have known all about borrowing
ten, and he ought to understand now why little boys should stay in very
hot rooms while big girls went away to fairs and merry-go-rounds, and
delightful shows full of queer people.  Oh, yes: of course, it was all
right; only he did wish his head was not so swimmy--yes, that was how he
expressed his feeling.

He sank down at last on a very uncomfortable sofa with a broken spring,
and the next minute fell fast asleep.  He did not know, poor little boy,
how long he slept; but when he awoke he felt very much startled and
puzzled, for it had grown quite late, and the sun had gone away, and the
room was no longer so hot.  The clothes, too, had all been taken down
from their lines, and he could see across the ugly garden.

It was a very small garden; but there was a gate at the further end, and
the gate was standing open; and beyond the gate was a field with a path
leading across it; and, lo and behold! at the far, far end of the field
was a very brown man standing quite still, and holding a lot of baskets
in his hand.  They were baskets of all sorts and shapes and sizes; and
there was something about the man and the baskets which caused Ralph's
heart to beat.

He went cautiously to the window, and gazed across the garden and across
the fields at the man.  The man was very brown, and he carried baskets.
Gipsies carried baskets; they always did; Ralph had heard so.  He did
not believe that there was ever a basket in the whole world that had not
once been carried by a gipsy.

Suppose he went and talked to the man; there would be no harm in that;
it would be interesting to him.  Harriet had told him to stay where he
was, but then Harriet did not know that there would be--first, an open
window, and then an open gate, and beyond the gate a gipsy--the very
person Ralph longed to see!

The temptation was too much for him.  He was too tired, and too lonely,
and too much a very little boy to resist it.  Swiftly he rose from his
uncomfortable sofa, pushed back his tumbled hair, and flying, first
across the garden and then across the field, reached the brown man's
side.

"Please," said Ralph earnestly, looking up with his brown eyes at the
brown face, "is you a gipsy?"

"I be that, little master," said the man, and he gazed down
inquisitively and perhaps not unkindly at Ralph.

Ralph looked at him with great wonder and intense curiosity.

"Wot be yer wanting o' me, little master?" said the man.

"I love gipsies!" said Ralph.

"Do yer, indeed?  And wot's yer name?"

"I am Ralph Durrant.  I live at a school near.  There are lots of girls
in the school, and I've got a school-mother.  My school-mother is at the
fair, and I am alone here.  I'm rather lonesome, and I'm so glad you
have come, gipsy man, 'cause you can talk to me."

"To be sure," said the man, seating himself on a low stile, and taking
from his pocket a very large clasp knife, with which he proceeded to
sharpen a stick.

Ralph stood very near him without speaking, just glad to be close to
him.  From time to time the man looked at the child, and the child
returned the man's gaze.

"Where did yer say yer held out, youngster?" he remarked after a long
pause.

"At a school with a lot of girls," said Ralph.  "Father sent me; it's
all right.  How funny and sharp you make that stick, gipsy man!"

"I guess you mean you live at Abbeyfield?" said the man, now shutting up
his knife and returning it to his pocket.  "They be rich folks there, so
I guess you must be rich.  We gipsies is poor; our folks haven't got any
money."

"Nor have I," said Ralph eagerly.  "I haven't any money at all; if I had
I 'spec' I'd have been took to the fair.  See, gipsy man, see, my
pockets is quite empty."

He turned out both his little pockets as he spoke, and looked at the man
for sympathy.

"Dear, dear, dear!" said the man.  "That is 'ard, now.  But your folks
is rich, bean't they?"

"Father's made of money; I've heard folks say so."

"Well, now; that is nice for you; and he's fond of a little chap like
you, ain't he?"

"Father?" said Ralph.  He paused for a minute; then said with great
force: "Yes, Father's fond of me."

The man looked to right of him and to left of him.  There was no one in
sight.  There was only very pretty little Ralph, in his pretty and
expensive dress.  There was a wood behind them, a wood to right of them,
and a wood to left of them, and the doctor's little, old-fashioned house
at the further end of the field; the house was to all appearance empty
for the time being.

The gipsy man drew Ralph close and took his hand.  Ralph felt that brown
hand of the gipsy man's as hard as iron.  His little heart gave a sort
of jump; but he was not going to be at all frightened.  He was glad, he
was very glad, he had seen a brown, brown gipsy man for himself; he had
spoken to him; whatever Harriet might or might not do in the future,
_he_ had seen a gipsy man himself.

"I must be saying good-night, now," he remarked in a very polite voice.
"I am so glad I has met you.  Please, good-night, Mr Gipsy Man.  I am
going back.  I must wait in a horrid, ugly drawing-room for my
school-mother: I must say good-night, Mr Gipsy."

"Not so fast, master," said the man.  "How do you know that I wants to
say good-night to you?  I've took a sort of a fancy to yer, little
master."

"Have you?" said Ralph, looking up at him.

"Yes--'tain't every little master as says such pretty words to us brown
folks."

"Oh, I love you all," said Ralph.

"Now, see," said the man, "that's very pretty talk, very pretty, indeed;
and how would little master like a basket for his very own to hold
things--marbles and knives--"

"Oh--and matches!" said Ralph, intensely excited all in a minute.

"Yes, and matches."

"And pocket-hankershers," said Ralph.

"To be sure!  How would little master like such a basket with a lid to
it, now, and a little handle?"

"Oh--it would be lovely!" said Ralph.

"There's my good wife 'as got one, not like these,"--he kicked his own
baskets with a look of contempt--"but a pretty one, to home.  You come
along 'ome with me, and I'll give you one."

"How far off is your house?" asked Ralph, in great excitement.

"No way 'tall; just through this wood, and through another field, and
there you be."

"Is it a house on wheels?" asked Ralph.

"Now, ain't you a 'cute little master!  There are wheels to our house."

"And does it move?"

"In _course_, it moves!"

"I should love it to move," said Ralph--"and to _feel_ it move."

"Then, you shall, my pretty little dear.  You come along with me, and
we'll harness old Dobbin to the house, and take you a bit across the
field and give you a basket, and you shall be back again here in time
for your school-mother afore she misses you."

Ralph considered for a minute.

"We must be very, very quick," he said.  "I shouldn't like to vex my
school-mother.  Shall we run, brown gipsy man?"

"Yes," said the man.

The next minute he had sprung lightly over the stile, had lifted Ralph
across, and hand-in-hand they were running through the wood.  In a very
short time they had also crossed a field, and beyond the field was a
wide clearing, where were tents, and brown babies, and brown men and
women, and some mongrel dogs that rose lazily and wagged their tails
when the big brown man and the little brown boy approached.  A very
hideous old woman, nearly bent double, and with a toothless jaw,
advanced towards the pair, and a very young woman with a handsome face
and flashing black eyes followed her.

The young woman wore a scarlet shawl twisted round her head, and a lot
of beads round her neck, and long ear-rings in her ears.  The man spoke
at once:

"Here's a little master," he said, "who wants a basket.  Flavia--you
choose him the very prettiest basket we 'as got, and put a knife into it
and some coloured beads, and take him into our house on wheels, and put
Dobbin to the house, and make the house move right across the field.
You understand, Flavia?"  Flavia's eyes flashed.  She knelt down by
Ralph, and took his two little hands, and looked into his face.

"Eh, but you are a sweet little man!" she said, and she kissed him on
his red lips.  Then, lifting him bodily in her arms, she carried him up
the steps into the house on wheels.

"Here we be!" said Flavia; "and I'll just find the prettiest basket of
all for you, and I'll find a knife, too, and show you how to sharpen
sticks so as to make them like arrows.  I'll show yer lots o' things,
and I'll be real good to yer."

"Only--I must be going home," said Ralph, who, somehow, now that he had
got into the house on wheels, was not quite so sure that he liked it.
It was so full of smoke, and so crowded with furniture, and there were
such a number of brown babies bobbing up their heads in every direction
that at first he felt he could not breathe.  And then he wondered why
his eyes hurt so much.

"You shall go home," said Flavia, "as soon as ever the house moves
across the field."

"Perhaps," said Ralph, trying to be very polite and not to show the
least scrap of fear, "perhaps, gipsy lady, it might be best for me not
to wait just now for your pretty house to move.  Perhaps I had best come
'nother day, pretty lady, 'cause my school-mother will be coming back,
and she'll be wanting me."

"Where do you live?" asked Flavia.

"In a big school with a lot of girls.  I's the only boy, and I's staying
there till Father comes back to fetch me."

"He must mean Abbeyfield," said the toothless crone, raising her head
from where she was lying on a bundle of old sacks.

She had a pipe in her mouth, and as she spoke she puffed out a volume of
smoke.

"Now, to think of it," said Flavia.  "Is that the house, the pretty
house, you're in?  We go past Abbeyfield: we'll put you out when we get
there; it'll save a lot of time."

"But," said Ralph, very nearly crying, and very nearly losing his
manhood, "I's not to wait in that house; I's to wait in the house of a
doctor--in a hot drawing-room.  Oh, please, let me out!"

"There," said Flavia, "we're off at last.  Just once across the field,
little master, and then back you'll go, basket and all."

It was exciting; with whoops, and shouts, and cracking of several whips,
the house on wheels began slowly to go forward.  Gipsy men ran by it,
and gipsy children shouted at each side of it, and the mongrel dogs all
barked in chorus; and one little boy sat very still inside with a sad,
beating heart.

What was going to happen?  It was lovely to be in a house that moved,
and Flavia was very pretty.  But, somehow, he was very nearly losing his
manhood, and he did think that in another minute tears must rush to his
eyes.

Book 1--CHAPTER ELEVEN.

THE TERROR.

The fair was delightful.  The merry-go-rounds were much more enchanting
than anything Harriet had ever dreamed about.  Pattie was very generous,
too, with her shilling, and that shilling seemed to go a long way.

Pattie had made a careful calculation.  A penny each to be admitted to
the fair, a penny each for a turn on the merry-go-round; a penny each
for a visit to the fat lady; a penny each for a peep at the man with two
heads.  All this fun, this intoxicating delight, could be obtained for
eightpence.  There would still be fourpence over.  Pattie explained to
Harriet as they were approaching the fair how she meant to spend her
money.  Harriet nodded.  Pattie's programme was carried out to
perfection.

How delightful it was!  Oh, the fascination of that rush through the air
on those prancing horses!  And oh--the mystery of looking at the fat
woman, and the thrill which went through them when they gazed at the man
with two heads!

But the delight was short, and quickly over.  They had not been half an
hour at the fair, but the whole of their programme had been carried
through, and eight pence out of Pattie's twelve had vanished.  Still,
there were four more to spend.  They might have two more turns each on
the merry-go-round, or they might buy some gingerbread at the
gingerbread stall.  That stall was a most fascinating one, for the
gingerbread was made into all kinds of funny shapes.  There were
gingerbread dogs, gingerbread cats, gingerbread birds; and there were
also horses of gingerbread, and elephants of gingerbread, and--what was
more exciting than anything else--the wonderful and handsome lady who
sold the gingerbread cakes could write anything to order on them.  She
had a sort of pencil which she dipped in liquid sugar, and behold,
Pattie's name could appear on the cake, or Harriet's name, or any other
thing that the girls happened to ask for.

Should they have a gingerbread each?  Oh yes, they must.  Harriet
decided that she would have written on her gingerbread cat, "Harriet--
the Queen of Hearts."  She could get all this for a penny.  She borrowed
a penny from Pattie, and the deed was done.  She would not eat her
treasure on any account--she would carry it home with her.  By and by,
she might show it to the children in the old house in the country, and
describe to them how she of all others on that special morning had won
the heart of a little boy.  She was in ecstasies over her treasure.

Pattie also secured a gingerbread cake with a suitable inscription.  But
now there were only two pennies left.  They might have one more ride on
the merry-go-round, and then they would go home.  Had they done this,
that which happened would not have happened, for they would have found
little Ralph asleep on the sofa, and Harriet would have rushed back to
the school with him before Miss Ford had time to miss either of them.
But, just as they were about to leave the fair, who should come up and
speak to Pattie, but her father's chemist, for Dr Pyke kept his own
dispensary.

The chemist was a young man of the name of Frost, very much addicted to
eating gingerbreads and amusing himself at fairs.  He was delighted to
see Pattie; and Pattie, with some pride, introduced Harriet to him.

Mr Frost was a fat, podgy young man, and he felt quite pleased to walk
with the little girls.  With one on his right hand and one on his left
he perambulated round and round the fair with them now.

"What have you seen?" he asked, and when they explained, he told them
that they had practically seen nothing at all, and that now it would be
his pleasure to give them a good time.  He described what he meant to
do, and certainly his programme was delightful.  He himself would go on
the merry-go-round with a little girl on each side of him, and they
would fly right round not once, but several times; and afterwards, they
would go into a little theatre and witness a wonderful piece of acting
in which there was a giant and a pigmy, and some acting dogs, and an
elephant and even a lion.  The entertainment was of a jumble order, but
it would be intensely exciting.  It would take, Mr Frost said, no time
at all.  They must not miss it, however, for it really was first-rate,
of that he could assure them.

Before Harriet could even reply, he had provided tickets for all three--
tickets which cost sixpence each.  He really was a most generous young
man.

"But," said Harriet, turning to Pattie, "won't this make me dreadfully
late?"

"Late?" cried Mr Frost, overhearing her.  "Not a bit of it.  I tell you
it will be over in no time at all.  Here, take a hand each, girls, and
we'll squeeze well to the front.  We mustn't miss the beginning of the
fun.  The fat lady comes on first of all with the kangaroo; oh, it will
be screamingly funny!"

The next minute, they were inside the tent where the great performance
was to take place.

They were inside with a crush of people behind them, and Harriet forgot
everything else.  The entertainment was of the breathless order; before
you had time to recover from one astounding surprise, another still more
astounding followed on its heels.  The fat lady's performance was
nothing at all to that done by the man with two heads--he really managed
these double appendages with the greatest cleverness, nodding and
winking simultaneously with both, and causing the people to shriek,
holding their sides with mirth.

"He hasn't two heads at all, you know," said Mr Frost, "but it's
wonderfully cleverly managed for all that."

Harriet and Pattie were almost sorry.  They would much rather have
believed that the man was possessed of the double head.

"Oh!" said Pattie, with a gasp.  "I was thinking what a lot he could do
if they were really two heads."

Mr Frost roared with laughter.

"It would be convenient, wouldn't it?" he said.  "He could eat with one
of his mouths, you know, and talk with the other; and he could keep one
of his brains for amusement, and one for lessons.  I say, though, let's
look at this!  Here's the elephant with the dancing dogs on his back!"

Oh, was there ever such a time?  It flashed by in what seemed less than
a minute, but in reality it took over an hour and a half.  When Harriet
and Pattie, two flushed and intensely happy little girls, left the small
theatre Harriet knew at once by the changed light how long she must have
been within.

"Oh please," she said, turning to Mr Frost, "we have enjoyed ourselves
tremendously; but what is the hour, please?--oh, I do hope it isn't
late: I wanted to take Ralph back to school before five o'clock."

"Five o'clock!" said Mr Frost with a roaring laugh.  Really he was
rather a noisy young man.  "Why, it's long past seven.  You don't
suppose we have had all that fun in no time at all?"

"Past seven!" said Harriet, in a tone of horror.  "Oh, oh, don't keep
me!"

She rushed away.  She never waited even to say good-bye; Pattie and Mr
Frost both thought her rather rude.  In a minute she was out of the fair
and running along the road.  When she had gone to the fair that
afternoon with Pattie, the distance between the doctor's house and the
bit of common where the fair was held seemed no way at all.  But now
Harriet thought she had miles to travel.

At last, panting and terrified, she reached the doctor's house.  The
door, which had been standing open in the afternoon, was now shut.  She
rang the bell furiously.  Oh, why had they shut the door?  Every minute
of delay was intolerable.  Why did not Anastasia hurry?  What a horrid
name to give a servant! and what a horrid servant she was.  Harriet in
her agony gave the bell another and more furious pull.

It was opened this time by a stout, red faced lady.  "Now, little girl,"
she said, "if you dare to ring the doctor's bell again in this rude
manner I shall complain to your--oh, my dear!" she continued, changing
her voice, "I beg your pardon, I thought it was little Susan Wright from
across the road.  That child requires keeping in her place; she is
always playing practical jokes.  But what is it, my dear little girl?
Come in, pray.  Do you want Dr Tyke?"

"No, no!" said Harriet.  "Don't keep me, please.  I have come for the
little boy in the drawing-room."

"The little boy in the drawing-room?" said Mrs Pyke, who wondered if
Harriet were very ill and a little off her head.  "But I know nothing of
any little boy in the drawing-room."

"Oh, please let me go for him," said Harriet, trying to push past the
stout lady.  "He is there, I know, for I left him there.  He is little
Ralph--little Ralph Durrant.  I told him to wait for me; I know I am
late, but let me go for him at once, please."

"You can go into the drawing-room, of course," said Mrs Pyke; "although
I must say you puzzle me very much, for I know of no little boy there.
The doctor and I are having a cosy little supper in the drawing-room at
the present moment; we often do of an evening to get away from the
children, and I assure you there is no little boy in the room."

Nevertheless, Harriet would go for herself.  Ralph must be where she had
desired him to stay.  With her face very white, her whole appearance
exceedingly wild, and her poor little heart beating almost to
suffocation, she poked about the untidy and ugly drawing-room.  She
looked under sofas and behind curtains, and finally burst into tears.

"He is not here--he is gone!  What will become of me?" she sobbed.

"Why," said Dr Pyke, who had not recognised her at first, "why, surely
I cannot be mistaken--you are one of the little girls from Abbeyfield!
My dear child, sit down and tell my wife and me at once what is the
matter."

"Oh, I must not stay," said Harriet, struggling to suppress her tears;
"but I--oh, it is too dreadful!"  And then she told, as best she could,
the story of her day's adventure.  "I should not have done it," she said
in conclusion, "but it was so tempting, and I thought of course he would
wait for me."

"This, my dear," said Dr Pyke, turning to his wife, when Harriet had
finished speaking, "is one of my little patients at Abbeyfield.  Her
name is Harriet Lane, and I am thankful to say that, as a rule, she does
not put many pennies into the doctor's pocket; but, my dear child, if
you give way like this you will be ill, and then I shall be the richer,
and you the poorer.  Come now, stop crying; of course you have done
wrong, but doubtless you have no cause for alarm.  The little boy, my
dear wife, is little Ralph Durrant.  His father--you must know his
father's name, of course--_the_ Durrant, you know, the great African
explorer.  I have seen the little fellow, a most sweet little man.  I am
sure, my dear child, that we shall find your little friend safe at
school.  And now, if you will take my hand, I will bring you back to
Abbeyfield, and try to explain what has occurred."

"Oh, oh!" sobbed Harriet.  "Oh, oh--I am too miserable.  I am certain
that Ralph--little Ralph, is lost!"

Book 1--CHAPTER TWELVE.

IN THE HIGH WOODS.

Alas!  Harriet was right.  When they reached the house, and when she
wildly enquired of Miss Ford if Ralph were anywhere about, she was met
by that astonished woman's instant denial.

"Where have you been yourself?" said Miss Ford, speaking in great
agitation.  "We wondered what you and Ralph could be doing, and now you
come here without him, and--and--Dr Pyke, you have brought her!  Is
anything wrong?"

"I greatly fear there is, Miss Ford," said the doctor.  "Please don't
scold this poor child at present.  There is no doubt she has behaved
very badly, but our immediate duty is to find the poor little fellow."

"What poor little fellow?  Oh, how you terrify me," said Miss Ford.

"Little Ralph Durrant," said the doctor.  "The fact is, Harriet brought
him to my house this afternoon--"

"You dared!" began Miss Ford.

"Oh yes," said the doctor; "she dared a good deal.  She was very
naughty, we know that, but there's no use in thinking of her at present.
She left Ralph in my drawing-room, and when she came back for him, he
was gone."

"Oh!" said Miss Ford, "what is to be done?"

"You are certain he has not returned here?"

"Certain?" said the poor teacher; "of course I am certain.  But I will
go and enquire: I will look everywhere."

Miss Ford did look.  She searched the house; she questioned the maids,
she went to Ralph's own little bedroom, she even penetrated to that snug
nest where Curly Pate lay like a ball of down.  Nowhere was Ralph to be
found.  She came back at last, with a pale face, to the doctor.

"The child has not returned," she said.  "What is to be done?"

"We must lose no time," said Dr Pyke.  "Harriet--"

Harriet had seated herself on the first chair.  She sat there huddled
up.  There is no other word to describe her appearance.  Her hat was
pushed forward over her eyes, and those eyes were red with crying.  Now,
however, her great terror prevented any further flow of tears.

"Harriet," repeated the doctor, sternly.

"Yes, sir."

"You know more about Ralph than I do.  Have you the least--the slightest
idea where he may have gone?"

Harriet thought of the gipsies.  She remembered how she had promised
Ralph to take him to see them; how she had failed in her promise.

"Perhaps,"--she said--"oh, I don't know--but he was very much excited
about the gipsies; he may have gone to them."

"We will send at once to enquire," said Miss Ford.  "We must on no
account wait until Mrs Burton returns; there is not an instant to
lose."

"I will go myself," said the doctor.  "I know where their encampment is.
It is really scarcely likely that they have the child.  Gipsies don't
often steal children now-a-days.  We may find the little fellow
anywhere.  I will also call at the police station, and get the police to
begin to search for him."

When Dr Pyke left the house, Miss Ford turned to Harriet.

"A nice sort of school-mother you have made," she said.  "You don't
suppose that you will win your pony after this, you bad girl.  Come with
me at once into the third form parlour, and wait there until Mrs Burton
returns.  She will then decide what is to be done with you."

"I don't want any pony," suddenly sobbed Harriet.  "I only want Ralph.
I know I am desperately naughty, but I don't want anything in all the
world now but Ralph."

"It is easy for you to talk like that now that you have neglected the
poor little fellow so shamefully, and disobeyed Mrs Burton's strictest
orders.  Come with me at once, you bad child."

Harriet went.  So subdued was she, that she did not even hate Miss Ford
for speaking to her in this way.  A minute later, she found herself in
the third form special parlour.  One electric light was on.  It threw a
dim reflection over the scene.  Harriet looked round at the familiar
objects--the table in the middle, the story-books, the globes in their
corner, the birds in their cages, and the parrot in his cage.

The small birds were all asleep.  The books and toys, and tables and
chairs could not move; but the parrot was wide awake, and very much
alive.  He hopped from side to side and looked hard at Harriet.  At
last, he screamed in a noisy, shrill tone:

"Mind what you're about!  Ha, ha!  Mind what you're about!  Ha, ha!"

Poor Harriet.  She flung herself down on the floor and cried as though
her heart would break.  She was only a little girl still, and not all
bad.  That pony with his side-saddle, that perfectly made habit, all the
delights which she had sinned so deeply to obtain, would have been as
ashes now in her mouth.  She only wanted Ralph now, and Ralph was far
away.  Why had she behaved so badly?  Oh what, what was happening?

Her agony became almost unendurable.  Suddenly, she perceived that the
door of the parlour had not been shut, that it was a little ajar.  Why
need she sit there?  It was so awful to remain still; so frightful to do
nothing at all.

She stole softly to the door, opened it, and peeped out.  There was no
one in the hall, and the hall door itself stood wide open.

"Mind what you're about.  Ha, ha!" shrieked the parrot.

But Harriet was in no mood to mind.  She crossed the hall on tip-toe,
rushed to the open door, drew a deep breath, and the next moment was
skimming herself, light as a bird, over the ground in the direction of
the gipsy encampment.  Harriet could, indeed, run like the wind, and
never had she ran faster than on this occasion.

"It was I," she thought, "who caused him to be lost, so I will find him
again; yes, I will find him if it kills me."

Suddenly she drew up on the edge of a piece of common.  Here only
yesterday, surely, were many brown tents and many brown people.  Here
was this fascinating house on wheels of which she had spoken so much to
little Ralph.  But now--she could not believe her eyes!

The place was empty.  She could see, even by the moonlight, patches of
yellow grass which had been covered by the tents, and here and there she
could also perceive a bone or two, or a scrap of broken bread.  But not
a gipsy was in sight, not a tent within view, not a dog, not a brown
baby.  The gipsies had gone!  Why had they gone?  They were there, she
knew, that very afternoon, for she had seen the smoke curling up from
the house on wheels, as she and Ralph had gone with Pattie to the
village.

The gipsies had gone away quickly: of course they had taken Ralph with
them.  Now what was she to do?  She stood still in a shadowy part of the
field, and, as she did so, she distinctly heard the sound of wheels, and
listening, there floated also to her ears the sound of many voices
singing.

Her school-companions were returning from their picnic.  They were
coming back, as arranged, by moonlight.  They were happy: they were
enjoying themselves.  Harriet distinctly heard Robina's voice above the
others.  Robina had a clear voice like a bird.  Her notes were very
high.  They seemed to rise up as though, like the larks, they would
pierce the sky.  Now they rose above the other voices in a sort of
torrent of rejoicing.  Harriet dug her fingers into her ears.

"Oh, how soon they will be back!" she thought; "and they will miss him,
and they will know all about me, and oh--I can't, can't stand it!  I
will follow the gipsies.  I wonder where they have gone."

Harriet thought for a few minutes.  The police had already been to visit
that very field.  They had gone there in Dr Pyke's company, and they
were taking steps to follow the gipsies on horseback.  But Harriet knew
something that the police did not know.  One of the servants in the
house had long ago been a gipsy girl herself; and Harriet, who was much
fascinated by stories of the wild brown people, used to talk to this
girl when she got a chance.  The girl, from time to time, imparted some
of the secrets of her people to Harriet.  Amongst other things, she had
told her of the favourite resting-places of her tribe.  This special
common was one.  But there was another five miles away, in the very
heart of a deep wood, where they used to go when they wanted to hide
something.  The police did not know of this place of refuge in the
middle of the High Woods, as they were called; but Harriet remembered it
now.

It was five miles away, and she was only a little girl, and she was
tired.  But what of that if it might be her privilege to find Ralph and
bring him back?  What mattered any amount of fatigue?

Cora had told her how to get to the hiding-place in the wood.  She had
described how difficult it was for an ordinary person to find it, but
had given Harriet a full description of it in one of her moments of
confidence.

"We often wanted to make ourselves scarce," Cora would say, "and no one
ever yet found us there.  It was a bonny enough place, too, although the
trees grew so thick around that we did not get much sunshine."

Now Harriet started on her way to the gipsies' hiding-place in the
woods.  She was glad of the moonlight, and glad to avoid the road.  She
crossed many fields, and by and by found herself in a lane with very,
very high hedges.  The hedges were so high that she could not see a
scrap of the world on either side of her.  She could only gaze at the
stars overhead, and wonder, and wonder, what was going to happen.  She
might be going wrong for all she knew.  But all of a sudden she saw
something shining on the road.  She stooped and picked it up.  It was a
child's broken rattle--the sort of thing which a gipsy child might have.

Now she felt certain that she was on the track of the runaways, and this
knowledge gave her confidence.  It takes, however, a very long time for
a small girl not twelve years of age to walk five miles; and it was long
past midnight, and the moon in the sky had set, and real darkness had
come over the world before Harriet reached the entrance to the woods.

The lane in which she found herself led straight to these very woods:
and oh! if it had been dark in the lane, how black was it here.  She
found her heart beating, and for a short time had not courage to go on.
But then she thought of Ralph.  She thought of him so hard that he began
to fill all her little world.  She wanted him so badly that no pony that
ever breathed was now of any consequence to her in comparison.  Why
should she fear the creatures in the wood?  She had no room in her heart
for fear.

So she moved gently forward, a little girl, all alone in the black wood!
The creatures of the wood must have wondered, and no doubt most of them
were very much afraid of her, and retired into their snug little wood
homes on her approach.  But she saw none of them.

At last she came to a clearing, and in the clearing she perceived what
made her heart beat wildly.  It was no less a creature than a dog.  The
gipsies must be close at hand.

The dog was lying on the ground dead asleep.  But when Harriet
approached, he started and growled.  Harriet, led by she knew not what
instinct, immediately put her hand on his head.  He quivered all over.
Whether he would have growled again or bitten her, no one can tell, but
in despair she flung herself by his side, and whispered in his ear:

"Oh, do be quiet; I am so miserable!"

No one can quite tell what dogs understand, but certainly this dog
growled no more.  On the contrary, he licked Harriet's hand with his hot
tongue.  She had at last found the gipsies, and she might stay where she
was until the first light of the morning.  Perhaps poor Harriet slept
with her head on the dog's shaggy neck, but even she herself was not
quite sure on that point.

Early, very, very early in the morning, led by Jakes, the gipsies' dog,
she found the house on wheels.  The gipsies were tired, and most of them
asleep.  But when Harriet approached the dogs all barked, and of course
the gipsy men all started to their feet, and the toothless old crone
came out of the house on wheels, and pretty Flavia followed her.

"What did the little lady want?" they asked.  They were all quite
inclined to be civil to the little girl.

"I want," said Harriet, "my own little boy.  I am his school-mother, and
I want him back again."

"Oh Harriet!  Harriet!" cried Ralph's little voice.

He popped his small head outside the house on wheels.  Not even Flavia
could keep him from Harriet now.  In one minute he was in her arms, and
she was kissing him--oh, with such a world of affection.  Somehow, Ralph
felt a difference in her kisses, and he loved her at last, and knew that
he had not loved her at all before.

"Ralph, you must come home at once," said Harriet.

"Now, my dear," said the tall gipsy man who had lured Ralph away on the
previous night; "this little boy belongs to us, don't yer, little man?"

"No, I don't," said Ralph.  "This is my school-mother, and I belong to
her."

"You had best let him come," said Harriet, "for the police are looking
for you, and you'll get into dreadful hot water if you keep the little
boy."

"We took charge of him," said the man, sulkily; but a frightened look
crossed his face when Harriet spoke of the police.  "He were a poor
lonely little gent, and we took pity on him."

"They were awfu' kind to me!" said Ralph.  "They're very nice gipsy
people; and see, they give me this."

He showed his basket with great pride to Harriet.

"See!" he continued, "there's things inside--a knife, and matches, and
all sorts of other things."

"That don't matter now," said Harriet.  "You must come back; they're
dreadfully frightened about you at school, and so was I.  Gipsy man,"
said Harriet, looking up at the tall man, "will you please saddle a
horse, and put Ralph on its back, and put me there too, for I am
dreadfully tired, and take us to Abbeyfield, and please be quick."

"When my father comes back," said Ralph, "I will talk to him about you,
gipsy man, and about you, pretty gipsy lady."  Here he took Flavia's
hand.  "And he shall give you money--much--and big money; and I will
come and see you again, for I love you all."

"We'd best take him back," said the man, looking at the toothless old
crone, "or we'll get into trouble with the per-lice."

"Yes," said Harriet, gravely, "and you had best be quick."

So early in the morning the children went back to the school on the
gipsy's tall horse, and the gipsy himself led them.  Ralph talked all
the way back, and was very gay and very happy; and when he parted from
the gipsy man he insisted on kissing him, which surprised that person
very much.

"Good-bye, little master," he said, in rather a shamefaced way.

"Good-bye," said Ralph.  "And Father will give you money: I'll see he
do."

Thus Ralph returned after his great adventure and Harriet and he went
together, side by side, into Mrs Burton's private sitting-room.  There
Harriet told all.

"I don't want the pony," she said in conclusion; "and I'm not a bit fit
to be a school-mother!  But I love him all the same."

"I must punish you, Harriet," said Mrs Burton.  "I should not do my
duty else.  For the remainder of the term, Robina will be Ralph's
school-mother; but you shall see him every day, and it remains with
Ralph himself to decide whether he loves you in future or not."

"Oh, don't I love her just this very instant-minute," said Ralph: and he
flung his arms round Harriet's neck.  Thus Harriet found out what real
love meant.  She found it out in her pain, the pain she had suffered
during that lonely night--she found it out also in her joy--the joy that
had come to her when she saw Ralph again.

The pony and the habit and the side-saddle did not matter a bit to
Harriet now, for she had more--the true heart of Ralph himself.  Love
can destroy jealousy and all bad things in the heart.  So it was with
Harriet, even though Robina became the little boy's school-mother, and
even though she won the big prize.  Harriet was happy.

Book 2--CHAPTER ONE.

A DELIGHTFUL PROPOSAL.

When Ralph Durrant's father came for him on the day of the great
break-up at the school, he found a little boy who said with emphasis
that he had several school-mothers, and that he did not wish to say
good-bye to any of them.  This state of things rather puzzled Mr
Durrant, whose one desire in life was to make Ralph intensely happy.

"How am I to manage such a lot of mothers, little man?" he said.

"You must, Father," replied Ralph.  "There is my naughty school-mother--
her name is Harriet.  She is both naughty and good, and I love her like
anything.  And there is my beautiful, good school-mother--Robina; and I
want not to say good-bye to either of them.  I s'pose," continued Ralph,
"that Robina must have the pony; only I wish there were two ponies--"

But here Mrs Burton interfered.

"Ralph," she said, "I have something to say to your father.  Run away
for a short time and play with Curly Pate, my dear."

Ralph, who had been excellently trained by Robina, ran immediately out
of the room.  Mr Durrant turned and faced Mrs Burton.

"Well," he said, with a smile, "my little scheme seems to have answered.
Ralph was fretting a good deal when I brought him here.  He had been
badly managed at home: none of his aunts understood him.  He missed his
dear mother,--who died two years ago,--more than words can say.  It was
not that he fretted about her, for the dear little man was too young to
fret, but he just missed the mothering part of life which all little
children need and cannot do without.  His aunts are good, but
old-fashioned people, and they failed just where they most meant to
succeed.  Now, I see a dear, healthy, happy little boy, with rosy cheeks
and bright eyes.  I have to thank you, Mrs Burton, for a great deal.

"You know that I must leave him very soon to return to South Africa.
You know, too, that my work while there, leads me into very possible
dangers: in fact, I think I may add into certain dangers; and if it were
possible to secure a permanent home for my little man in your house, I
should love to do so."

"But this is a school for girls," said Mrs Burton, with a smile.

"Still, one little boy--my dear friend--one little motherless boy, not
six years of age--"

"He is a baby," said Mrs Burton, "and we all love him.  I will think it
over."

"Do, my dear friend.  I can scarcely tell you what a weight of care will
be lifted from my mind if you will allow me to send Ralph back here at
the end of the holidays.  But in the meantime, what is this talk about
several school-mothers, and in especial about two; one naughty--one whom
he loves very dearly, and one good--one whom he also seems to adore?  Am
I really to give two ponies, two side-saddles, two habits, and provide
for the keep of two of these little animals for many years?  If you can
prove to me that such an action on my part is necessary, I will gladly
give not two, but twenty, ponies to Ralph's little mothers in this
school."

"You are so generous, Mr Durrant, that you would really spoil all my
little girls if you were allowed to have your own way," said the
headmistress.  "The fact is, this your proposal with regard to the pony
was so tempting and so unlooked for, that it very nearly turned the head
and the heart of one child in this school.  That child--your little boy
will tell you her name, so there is no use in my withholding it--is
called Harriet Lane.  She behaved as she ought not to have done; and
although circumstances occurred--which I will also tell you later on--
that so terrified her and so appealed to her conscience that she is very
much improved now; nevertheless it would never do to give her a pony.
You must keep to your decision, Mr Durrant, one pony for one girl, and
one school-mother for little Ralph."

"Very well," said Mr Durrant.  "But I suppose I may do something else
for the would-be school-mothers."

He talked a little longer with Mrs Burton, and the result of this
conference was that just before break-up on that lovely summer's day,
the great African explorer made a proposal to the school.  It was this:

"I have heard a great deal," said Mr Durrant, standing on a platform
and looking at all the eager faces, "about your goodness to my little
boy.  I have further heard that the girls of the third form have each in
turn acted as his school-mother."

"Oh yes--oh yes!" said Ralph, coming forward now, and speaking with
great eagerness: "I has got eight mothers, and I don't want to lose one
of them.  My bestest mothers are my naughty one and my goodest one.
Robina is my goodest one, and Harriet is my naughtiest one: I love them
best, but I love all the others too."

"You, I think, are Robina Starling," said Mr Durrant, fixing his eyes
on Robina's face.

"Yes, sir;" she answered.

"And you have taken good care of my little boy."

"I love Ralph very much, sir," said Robina simply.

"And you, too, love him," said Mr Durrant, turning his eyes by a sort
of instinct in the direction where Harriet stood, Harriet still looking
pale and lanky and different from the rest of her school-fellows.

"Yes," said Harriet, with a sort of choke in her voice; "I care for
Ralph."

Little Ralph himself looked full at her.  He ran up to her now and took
her hand.

"Don't think about your naughtiness," he whispered to her.  "You is
forgived, you know."

Harriet squeezed the little hand and then let it go.  There was a lump
in her throat.  She could not imagine why Ralph Durrant--a little,
little boy--had such power over her.

"And the rest of you are mothers too," said Mr Durrant, looking from
one to the other.

"We all love Ralph," they answered.

"Well now: I have a proposal to make.  I am taking a house at the
seaside--a very nice country house for the holidays; and I want to know
if all the school-mothers can come and stay with Ralph and me in my
house.  You are all invited.  Will you come?  There will be the pony for
the _special_ school-mother--for you, Robina.  The pony which will be
your property, and which you can ride as much as you like, and as long
as you like, and lend to your companions when you wish to be
good-natured, will be with you.  And there will be donkeys--excellent
donkeys for the rest of you, and also bicycles, and also a waggonette,
and a governess cart; so I think there will be no difficulty in your
getting about; and I can promise you beforehand that I am a first-rate
person for managing picnics; and that my cook-housekeeper, Mrs Joseph,
is famous for her cakes, pies, and puddings; and that my other
housekeeper, Mrs Scott, will see to your wardrobes and look after your
other comforts.  But I wish to warn you beforehand, that there will be
no lady in the house.  There will be no grown-up lady-woman in my house,
so you children will have to look out for storms; for I can be, when I
like, a _very_ fierce man, and if there are really naughty children, I
can make it unpleasant for them.  There, my dear little girls, I am only
joking--"

"Father's awful at his jokes," interrupted Ralph at that moment.  "You
_is_ silly, father; you know that you is never cross."

"Perhaps," said Mr Durrant, "you had better, girls, take Ralph's
estimate of my character.  Anyhow, come those of you who wish to try me,
and stay away, those of you who are afraid.  The house will be ready to
receive you in a fortnight from now.  During that time, Ralph and I will
enjoy ourselves together.  This day fortnight, we shall both be prepared
to welcome you at Sunshine Lodge.  I am calling the house by that name
in advance, for I mean to have the sunshine in it day and night; and by
the special sort of sun that I allude to, I mean Kindness, Charity,
Unselfishness, Forbearance; and last, but not least, Love.  I mean, too,
that Pleasure should enter the house--nice, jolly Pleasure--and that
Care should keep her wrinkled old face out-of-doors.  I mean, in order
to secure these things, to have a certain amount of discipline in the
house, but that I shall exercise myself, and in my own way.  Now, all
those who wish to come to Sunshine Lodge, have the kindness to hold up
their hands.  Those who do not wish to come can keep their hands down."

"In course you will _all_ come!" said Ralph.  "It's Father's way to talk
like that; but he's awfu' jolly, is Father!"

"Yes: I believe I am jolly," said Mr Durrant.  "You had best take
Ralph's estimate of me: it is fair, on the whole.  Now girls: who'll
come? who'll stay?"

Was there an instant's hesitation?  Every hand was raised: every eye
said "Yes."  Every mouth shouted, "I am going!"  Every little heart
quivered with excitement.

"Then you will all come: you will all trust me," said Mr Durrant.  "Now
you need not trouble any more about the matter.  Get ready for the fun;
for fun it will be, I assure you--fun, fast and furious; fun from
morning till night, and in a certain sense from night till morning.  I
will get the addresses of your parents from Mrs Burton, and will write
to them individually, and I think I can promise that there won't be one
refusal.  The eight little mothers shall join Ralph and me at Sunshine
Lodge in a fortnight.  And now, my dears, good-bye for the present."

Mr Durrant took Ralph's hand as he spoke.  Ralph turned, however, as
they were leaving that sunny part of the grounds where this animated and
exciting scene had just taken place.

"Good-bye, mothers: good-bye, all of you!" shouted Ralph, kissing his
hand frantically to the eight little girls.

He disappeared round the corner, a proud little figure in his pretty
costume, and the school-girls looked one at the other.

Book 2--CHAPTER TWO.

ROBINA AT HOME.

The next day, the different girls went to their several homes.  Robina
had to make a longer journey than the others; but she arrived at length
at the somewhat solitary house on the borders of Wales where she lived
with her father and mother, and two little sisters.

Robina's mother was one of those rather trying invalids who without ever
being in any danger yet manage to make all those around them
uncomfortable.  Now, Robina loved her mother, but she never managed to
be an hour in her presence without rubbing the poor invalid the wrong
way.  Mrs Starling said that this big, firm, almost manly sort of child
was too much for her.  She did not mind the two _little_ girls sitting
in her shaded room and playing quietly with their toys.  Now and then,
she even permitted them to climb up on her sofa and pat her pale cheeks,
and kiss her hands.  But Robina was too lively and too full of vitality
for this sort of existence; and, as Mrs Starling was fond of remarking,
she tired her out without meaning to do so.

Now poor little Robina loved her mother passionately, and it was one of
her secret troubles that she could not manage to make that mother happy.
Mrs Starling had been an invalid for so long that her sister, Miss
Felicia Jennings, had charge of the house; and Miss Felicia was also the
sort of person who had the power of rubbing Robina the wrong way.

She was a very fussy woman who was so fond of saying `Don't' that Robina
wondered if she had any other word in her vocabulary.

"Now, Robina," she said on the present occasion, the moment the little
girl entered the house--"_don't_ make so much noise: walk quietly; go up
to your room, and _don't_ slam the door; also--_don't_ neglect to put
your boots outside on the mat, so that Fanny may take them down in good
time to get them cleaned.  And, Robina--_don't_ forget to wash your
hands and brush your hair, and _don't_ on any account fail to remember
that your mother has a bad headache and cannot have noise or excitement
in her room."

"I am not going to make any noise; and I will try not to be excited,"
said Robina.  "I have been very happy at school, Aunt Felice, and people
haven't said such a lot of `_don'ts_' to me.  I think it is `don't'
makes me so naughty when I am at home."

"Well--_don't_ oblige me to say `Don't,'" was Aunt Felicia's remark.

Robina ran upstairs.  She was never cross at school.  Why did she feel
irritation the very moment she got home?  She had looked forward very
much to her holidays.  She had all sorts of schemes in her practical
little brain for improving and rendering life agreeable to little Violet
and little Rose, her two small sisters.

She had quite expected that Violet and Rose would be waiting to welcome
her.  She had pictured them to herself all during the long, hot journey
to Wales.

Violet was five years old, and a very pretty little girl.  Curly Pate
had always more or less reminded Robina of Violet.  And then there was
Rose, who was not yet four years old, and who was a very delicate little
child and rather fractious.  Rose in some sort of intangible manner
recalled Harriet to Robina's memory; for she was lanky, and thin, and
had poor little weak legs, and a weak sort of crying voice, and people
said that she took after her mother, and would never be specially good
for anything.

Before she went to school, Robina had much preferred to play with
Violet, and had often left Rose more or less out in the cold.  But now
she resolved to correct all this, and to try to get to understand little
Rose, and to add to the happiness of her life.

"For if I don't," thought Robina, "she may grow up like Harriet: she may
even learn to be deceitful, and that would never do.  Oh, I know--I know
quite well the person who is better than all the rest of us put together
at the school, and that person is Ralph.  Who else would have changed
Harriet, and made her so that she could even bear to allow me to be
Ralph's school-mother, and yet to love little Ralph all the time?  I
must own that I do not love Harriet even now; but I suppose it is wrong
of me; anyhow, I see that there are possibilities of good in her; and I
will be very good to little Rose during the fortnight that I am at home
because of Harriet."

But Violet and Rose were both in bed, although they had pleaded very
hard indeed to be let stay up, and Mrs Starling was not considered well
enough to be disturbed by Robina that evening.  Robina's father was not
at home, and there was no one, therefore, to welcome the little girl
except Aunt Felicia.

"It is dull," thought Robina.  "I am glad that I am going to Sunshine
Lodge in a fortnight: I wonder if the invitation has come yet.  How
jolly we shall all be when we are there!  If mother were really glad to
see me, and if Rose and Violet were up, I should be a very happy girl
this evening; but as it is--"

Robina entered her rather bare and decidedly ugly bedroom, tossed her
hat on the bed, went to the small cracked looking-glass in order to see
how to put her thick hair straight, and then was preparing to run
downstairs again, when she saw the nursery room door very softly opened,
and a little figure peeped out.

"I am in my nighty, and so is Rose; but we're both 'ide awake," said
Violet's voice.  "Oo's come back, Wobbin.  Come and kiss us; do, do!"

"Oh, you darlings! you pets!" said Robina.

She went noisily into the nursery, and alack! and alas! the next minute
the door slammed after her.  Violet's little rosy face turned pale, and
the real Rose began to cry.

"Aunt Felice will come up and scold!" said Violet.  "Oh, put us into
bed, do! and don't go away--please, please, Wobina!"

"No, I won't," said Robina.  "I don't mind a bit whether I'm scolded or
not.  Of course, I didn't mean to slam the door.  You little darlings,
both of you!  You sweet pets!  Here I am back again, and won't we have
good times!  I have some chocolates for you in a corner of my school
trunk: I bought it out of the savings of my pocket-money; and it is
right good, I can tell you."

"All keemy in middle?" enquired Rose, in a voice of great eagerness.

"Yes," said Robina, "and browny outside."

"Can't us have some now?" asked Violet.

"I will try," said Robina.  "You lie quite still, and pretend to be
asleep, and I'll bring you some in a minute or two.  Aunt Felice
couldn't have heard the door slam, or she would be up here on the
landing by now.  Oh dear! oh dear!  I'll creep out ever so quietly.
Now, mum's the word.  Stay as still as mice, you two, until I return."

Two eager pairs of eyes in the midst of two small wide awake faces
followed Robina as she went to the nursery door.  She opened it softly,
and shut it behind her.  In a minute or two, she was back with the
chocolates, and each little child was made intensely happy.  Robina
promised all sorts of good things on the morrow--pick-a-back was one;
and oh! there was a wonderful secret: something amazing was going to
happen: for of course Robina knew well that the pony with the
side-saddle and the habit would arrive early the next day.  He could not
be objected to, for part of the prize was that all his expenses were to
be paid.

There was an old stable at the back of the house where he could lodge,
and the services of a special man were to be secured to look after him.
The thought of the pony comforted Robina immensely on that first evening
at home.  When she sat opposite to Aunt Felicia at supper, it occurred
to her to mention it.

"Aunt Felice," she said, "I have got a great piece of news for you."

"What is that, my dear Robina?  Don't put your elbow on the table; it is
so unladylike; and I wish, my dear, you would not have that habit of
opening your mouth when you are not speaking.  You ought to say the old
phrase, `Papa, potatoes, prunes and prism' constantly to yourself.
There is nothing for keeping the mouth in a nice shape like uttering the
word `prism.'"

"I can't, really, Aunt Felice.  I am not made that way," said Robina.
"I can't be worried about my mouth."

"There you are," said Aunt Felice, "always so headstrong, rough, and
disagreeable.  Now, _don't_ frown!  It really makes you look like a
fright.  Your poor mother quite dreads the thought of having you in the
house; you are so undisciplined and wayward."

"I was thought quite a good girl at school," said Robina.

"Then that was because none of them really knew you."

"I think they knew me very well.  You have to be your real self at
school, Aunt Felice."

"Then may I ask, miss, if that is the case, why you are not your real
self at home?"

"I am afraid I have got two selves, and I am my worst self at home,
because I am rubbed the wrong way."

"Indeed!" said Miss Jennings.  "That is nice hearing.  And who rubs you
the wrong way?"

"I know you will be very angry with me, Aunt Felicia; but you do."

"Robina: this is really more than I can stand.  You don't speak in that
impertinent way to me any more: you have no respect for those older and
better than yourself, Robina.  I don't say for a moment that you have
not your good points.  You are a clever, strong, intelligent child, but
you are too independent: that is what is the matter with you."

Robina fidgetted.

"_Don't_ push your things about on your plate like that!" said Miss
Felicia: "and oh! don't kick me with your long legs under the table!
You really are most objectionable in your manners--such a rough sort of
girl."

"Come, Auntie," said Robina suddenly, "I have been thinking a lot of my
return home.  I have never been to school before, and these are my very
first holidays, and anyhow, there is jolly good news--"

"Don't say jolly!  It is a most unladylike expression."

"Oh, I must talk a little slang.  I can't be too proper.  Besides,
`jolly' is accepted now as the most correct English.  `Awfully jolly' is
a lovely phrase."

"It is a misnomer, and abominable.  Don't ever say `awfully jolly' in my
presence."

"I will try not to," said Robina aloud.  To herself, she whispered: "I
won't be tempted: things never are awfully jolly when she is about."

"May I tell you the _nice_ thing that has happened?" she said, after a
pause.

"Don't spill that jam, Robina.  See, you are dropping the juice on the
table-cloth.  Now then, what is your news?  I don't suppose it is worth
anything."

"To begin with: I am going away on a visit in a fortnight."

"Indeed?" said Miss Jennings.  "That is so likely: little girls do go
away on visits without the permission of their elders.  That is the
modern tendency, I am well aware, but it has not taken root in this
house so far."

"Mr Durrant has invited me," said Robina, "and I know father and mother
will let me go: I am not a bit afraid on that point.  Mr Durrant will
manage it."

"Who is Mr Durrant?"

"He is _the_ Durrant, you know: everyone speaks of him.  He is one of
the greatest men in England at the present day."

Miss Jennings stared hard at her niece.

"Up to the present," she said, "I always did think you were truthful:
but I cannot quite believe that the great African explorer, whose
thrilling book I could scarcely lay down when once I began to read it,
would take any notice of an inconsequent, silly little girl like
yourself."

"Oh, but he has," said Robina, in a careless tone.  "He is very fond of
me.  I am his little boy's mother, you know."

"Robina: don't open your lips for the remainder of this meal.  Lies I
will not stand."

Robina whispered `prism' under her breath, and sat mute with her hands
folded.  After a time, Miss Jennings asked if she wished for anything
more.  She shook her head.

"Are you satisfied?  Are you no longer hungry?"  Robina nodded.

"Then leave the room."

Robina did so.  The next minute she was out of the house, and had rushed
round to the stables.

"Jim!" she said to the man who had charge of the old grey horse and the
very humble chaise which was the only conveyance known at Heather
House--the name of Robina's home.  "Jim: there is a very beautiful pony
coming here to-morrow; or he may not arrive till the next day.  He is
mine; and I want him to have a stable all to himself, and I want to hire
a proper groom to see after him.  Do you know any nice boy in the
village who can be trained to look after my pony?"

Jim, who had always a secret admiration for Miss Robina as a fine, manly
sort of young lady who could ride old Dobbin bareback from the time she
could walk, and whom he had secretly provided with many a less safe seat
on neighbours' horses, now answered with alacrity:

"You don't mean, miss, as Mr Starling has gone and bought you a pony of
your own?"

"No, Jim; nothing of the sort.  It is such a comfort to confide in you,
Jim: I _won_ the pony as a prize at school."

"Lawk-a-mercy!" said Jim: "what queer prizes they do have at that
school, now!"

"Shall I tell you how I won it?  I was good to a child."

"Lor! miss."

"A dear little boy.  I am his school-mother.  He chose me--or rather, he
didn't choose me first, but I became his school-mother afterwards; and
the prize was a pony and a side-saddle.  You will have me skimming all
over the country now when I am at home, Jim.  I'll be worse to manage
than ever."

"But miss, there is the master.  How do you know as he'll let you keep a
pony?"

"Oh, that is all right," said Robina.  "The gentleman who has given him
is going to pay all his expenses.  He is quite a rich gentleman, and he
doesn't mind what he spends.  So I want a very nice groom indeed."

"I wish I could do for him, miss," said Jim.  "I would with a heart and
a half, but the master wouldn't spare a minute of my time; and even if
he would.  Miss Jennings wouldn't hear of it.  She is very particular,
miss, and works a man real hard."

"Robina, come in this minute!" called a shrill voice at that moment,
"and _don't_ stand talking with Jim.  Jim; how _dare_ you idle your
time!  Have you cleaned out the hen's roost? and have you put down fresh
straw for the laying hen? and what about the ducks, Jim? and _don't_
forget that you are to go to the village early in the morning to get
some fresh corn for the young turkeys.  Robina, come here this minute:
don't dawdle: come quickly."

"I was talking to Jim," said Robina, "about my pony."

"Your what?" asked Miss Felicia.

"My pony: you would not let me tell you at supper time: you snapped me
up so short.  I have got such a lovely pony as a prize!"

"You dare to tell me such things!"

"But, Aunt Felicia, it is true.  I have got a pony.  I haven't seen him
yet, but I know he is _going_ to be a perfect darling, and there's a
side-saddle coming too, and a habit made from my own measurements.  My
measurements were taken before I left school, so the habit will fit me
perfectly, and will allow room for growing."

"The pony may come," said Miss Felicia: "but if it comes, it goes.  Do
you suppose for a single moment--you silly, selfish, thoughtless child--
that your poor father, who has such expenses owing to your dear mother's
sad condition of health, can afford to keep a pony for you?  If anyone
is fool enough to send the animal here it goes back again."

"I am certain father won't send it away," said Robina, "for it will cost
no one anything.  Mr Durrant--_the_ Durrant--for I have told no lies,
Aunt Felicia--is going to provide for all the expenses of my pony.  He
spoke to me about it; and there is to be a groom engaged to look after
my darling; and when I go away in a fortnight's time to Sunshine Lodge,
my pony comes with me, and father will never be one penny out of pocket
as far as my pony is concerned."

"Dear, dear!  Tut, tut!" said Miss Felicia.  "Go into the house, Robina.
You are either telling the most shocking lies, or something too
marvellous has happened.  I am inclined to believe in your want of
truth, Robina, and if this is proved to be the case, your punishment
will be exceedingly heavy."

Book 2--CHAPTER THREE.

A SURPRISE.

Late that night, Mr Starling returned home.  He was a heavily built,
rather dull looking man.  He was a gentleman living on his private
means, and as these means were small, and he was far too lazy to add to
them, the young Starlings had to do without the good things of life.

His house was decidedly ramshackle; his grounds neglected; his stables
in shocking disorder, and his one groom and factotum, Jim, sadly
overworked.

Nevertheless, Edward Starling managed on the whole to enjoy life.  He
was fond of golf, and spent nearly all his time over this fascinating
and absorbing amusement.  Had Robina been willing to take up golf, he
would scarcely have induced himself to send her to school; but as it
was, he did so for the sake of peace of mind.

Robina was troublesome at home.  She was too large and strong and
determined for the invalid mother, and she was always rubbing the
excellent, indefatigable aunt the wrong way.  Mr Starling was, however,
fond of Robina.  He liked her bold, free, frank manners.  He enjoyed her
little tiffs with Aunt Felicia, and rather encouraged them than
otherwise, and the very first thing he asked now when he entered the
house was if his daughter had returned.

"Yes;" said Miss Jennings, who made it an invariable rule to sit up for
her brother-in-law, however late he returned home.  "Yes," she said,
yawning, "Oh, dear me, Edward!  Don't leave that muddy mark in the hall;
I have such trouble getting those flags kept in order: and oh--_don't
put_ your pipe down there!  I can't endure the smell of smoke.  I am
very sorry that I am so sensitive, but neither I nor my dear sister can
abide tobacco."

Mr Starling slipped the pipe back into his pocket.  "There!" said his
sister-in-law, springing up.  "It isn't properly out, and will burn a
hole, and then I shall have the trouble of mending it.  You _won't_
consider things, Edward.  You are so thoughtless.  Oh, I am the very
last person to complain, but what was I saying?"

"Talking about Robina.  Is she home?"

"Home?" said Miss Jennings.  "Yes; thank goodness, hours ago, and in bed
and asleep."

"I can't take a peep at her, I suppose?  How is the young monkey
looking?"

"Whatever you do, Edward--don't disturb her!  She is such a queer,
excitable creature."

"She is well, I suppose?"

"Yes; that is--her body is; I am by no means sure about her mind."

"Her mind?" said Starling.  "Has anything gone wrong with that?"

"You will find out for yourself when you talk to her.  She certainly has
the most frightful cock-and-bull stories to tell us.  What an
extraordinary school it must be!  Robina is full of an invitation she
has received from some impostor who has taken the name of the great Mr
Durrant, and she also speaks of a pony arriving here to-morrow.  Of
course the child is dreaming, but if her lies are proved to be lies, I
shall punish her severely.  I am, however, just, before all things, and
wait before I administer the rod.  On the whole, Edward, I do not
congratulate you on Robina's return: we shall have a sorry time with her
during these holidays, and so far, school has the reverse of improved
her."

"You always were doleful, Felicia," said her brother-in-law: "but as it
is close on one o'clock, I will go to my room, and consider Robina's
iniquities in the morning--that is, if you have no objection."

"Objection?" cried Miss Jennings--"when I am just dying for my bed!  You
men have no heart and no consideration.  Here have I been sitting up
waiting for you all this long, weary time, with my eyes weighted as
though there was lead on the lids, and my back bowed with aching.  But
much you care."

"I wish to goodness you would go to bed, and leave me alone," said the
irate man.

"Not I;" she replied, "to have the house burgled in your absence, or set
on fire when you return, with the careless way you manage that pipe of
yours."

"Well: I'm off to bed now, Felicia.  If you do choose to sit up, it
isn't my fault."  And the master of the house ran upstairs three steps
at a time.  Even his sister-in-law's "Don't make so much noise" failed
to impress him in any way.

He reached his bedroom, got rapidly into bed, and fell asleep chuckling
over "that monkey Robina," as he called her.

By the first post the next morning, there arrived two letters, both of
immense interest to Robina.  She had got up early and was, if the truth
must be known, eagerly watching for the post.  She saw the letters when
they arrived, and had a sort of intuition that they contained news which
would be of vital interest to her.  But as they were addressed to her
father, she could do nothing towards gratifying her curiosity until he
appeared.

She was dressed that morning in one of her neat school frocks, and
looked very bonny, and strong, and self-reliant.  The two little sisters
were eagerly clamouring round her.

"Take my hand, Wobbin.  Wobbin, let's wun acwoss garden!" cried little
Rose.

"Oh, Robin!  I don't talk as badly as that," said the more important
Violet.

Robina sat down on the window-sill, and played to her heart's content
with the two.  In this attitude Miss Jennings found them.

"Now, Robina--I forbid you to spoil those children.  Violet don't
attempt to cry, or you shall leave the room.  Rose, put on your pinafore
at once, miss.  Now come to the table, all three of you, and let us
begin breakfast."

Miss Jennings seated herself by the tea-tray.  She littered a short
grace, and then porridge was dispensed.  Little Rose could not bear
porridge, and at once began to whimper.

"Don't cry!" said Miss Jennings.  "If you do, you leave the room."

"Eat up just a little bit, darling," whispered Robina.  "I have such
jolly things to tell you afterwards.  Has father come home?" continued
Robina, fixing her eyes on her aunt's face.

"Of course he has come home, my dear: why shouldn't he come home?
_Don't_, I beg of you, Robina, ask silly questions.  Your father has no
other house to sleep in, therefore when he is sleepy, he comes home.  He
is in bed at the present moment, and goodness only knows when he will
come down to breakfast."

"Oh, I hope he will come down soon!" said Robina, "for I want him to
open his letters."

"Very impertinent and forward of you!  Your father's letters are not
your concern."

"Not always," replied Robina, calmly, and helping herself to strawberry
jam: "but those two happen to be."

"Have you been trying to read them through the envelopes?"

"No: but I looked at the postmarks."

Miss Jennings was silent for an awful moment.  Then she said,
impressively:

"Little girls; listen to me."

The two children looked up expectantly.

"Never at any time copy the ways of your elder sister unless you wish to
be whipped."

Violet smiled rather vaguely.  Rose's little pale face grew paler.  She
nestled close to Robina.

"I 'uv oo, Wobbin," she said then, in a low, tremulous whisper.

"Bravely spoken, darling," whispered Robina back to her; and at that
moment, to the relief of every one, Mr Starling entered the room.

His big presence and bright personality made a pleasing diversion.

"Hullo, monkey!" he said, the minute he saw Robina.  "So you are back
once more--the proverbial bad penny, eh?"

He pinched her cheek.  "'Pon my word, you are looking fine!  And how do
you like school, monkey? and how is every bit of you?  Glad to have you
back: expect we'll have some fun now."

"Sit down, Edward, and don't keep Robina standing any longer," said Miss
Jennings.

Mr Starling winked solemnly at his daughter, and took his seat.

"Hallo!  What are these?" he said, as he saw his letters.

"They are for you, father," said Robina, eagerly: "but I think they are
about me."

"About you, monkey!  How can you know?"

"Don't encourage her.  Edward, don't read those letters at present,"
said Miss Jennings.

"Oh, please do, father," said Robina.

"Peese, farzer, peese!" said little Rose.  And "Please, father!" came in
a more pronounced voice from Violet.

To the relief of everyone at that moment Miss Jennings received a hasty
summons to run upstairs to her invalid sister.  The moment she left the
room, Mr Starling seized the first letter.

"Here goes!" he said.  "When the cat's away--now then, monkey, and you
two, listen to me."

He tore open Mr Durrant's letter, glanced through the contents, uttered
a hasty exclamation, and then proceeded to read it aloud.

  "My dear Sir:--I have a very great favour to ask of you.  I want to
  know if you will spare your dear girl, Robina, to me for the greater
  part of these holidays.  I have just secured a charming house at
  Eastbourne, quite above the town, and in a comparatively country
  place.  I don't know what its real name is, and what is more, I don't
  care; but while Robina is with us, it is to be called Sunshine Lodge.
  I am expecting also a number of her young school-companions to visit
  me.  Mine will be a bachelor's establishment, but it will be enlivened
  by the presence of my little boy, who is Robina's very great friend,
  and whom she has managed to be uncommonly kind to.  She will doubtless
  herself tell you the story of her friendship for my little son.  In
  consequence of that, I have the very great pleasure of awarding to her
  a prize which she has most justly won.  It was open to the competition
  of all her form, and she out of the eight girls came first in the
  list.  My little son, Ralph, himself decided the matter.  This prize
  is a pony which I am forwarding to your residence, Heather House.  I
  bought it at Tattersall's yesterday, and believe that it is a
  thoroughly sound and well-trained animal, accustomed to carrying a
  lady in the saddle.  It has no tricks, and is altogether safe, and
  also spirited.  The animal is not too large, and at the same time, not
  too small, so that it can be made use of not only when your little
  girl is still a child, but by and by, when she reaches woman's estate.
  A habit has been made for her, of the newest design, and safety
  pattern, and was forwarded yesterday from Poole's, in London.  It
  ought to reach her about the time when you receive this letter.  A
  side-saddle, of the most comfortable make, accompanies the pony.  I am
  sending the pony and saddle by a man of my own, whom I hope you will
  make arrangements to quarter either in your establishment or in rooms
  near.  The man is part of the prize.  He undertakes all the care of
  the pony, and is, of course, paid by me.  His wages need not trouble
  you in any manner, for you, my dear sir, have nothing to do with them.
  I am well aware, that, delightful as ponies are, they may sometimes
  arrive at country houses where they are not welcome for reasons which
  need not be described.  It would be a shabby present on my part, if I
  put you to any expense with regard to it.  My man will provide the
  pony with all necessary provender, and will send me the bill monthly.

  "All these things, my dear sir, your daughter has earned by her most
  admirable conduct; and believe me, I am very much her debtor, and
  shall always remain so, for she has done for the dearest being on
  earth to me, more than money can ever repay.

  "Believe me, Dear Sir,--

  "Yours faithfully,--

  "Malcolm Durrant."

"Oh!" said Robina, when the long letter had come to an end.

"Upon my word?" exclaimed her father.

He took up the other letter.  It was merely an announcement that a horse
of the name of "Bo-peep" was about to be forwarded by rail from
Paddington that evening, and would arrive with his groom at the nearest
station to Heather House at eleven o'clock the following morning.

"Why, the pony will be here in an hour!" said Mr Starling.  "Dear!
dear! dear!  What a truly exciting, remarkable thing!  Robina, monkey:
what am I to make of you?"

Just then, Miss Jennings came into the room.

"Haven't you done breakfast yet?" she said.  "Oh, don't make such
confusion in the room, and don't talk all of you at once."

"We have something to talk about," said her brother-in-law.  "This
child--this monkey of mine, has made her mark in the world already.  She
has got a pony of her own."

"I have heard of it," said Miss Jennings.  "You do not intend to be such
a fool as to keep it, Edward."

"Keep it?  I have nothing to do with it.  The pony, Bo-peep by name,
arrives with his own special groom, and the groom is found food and
lodging and paid wages by Mr Durrant--Malcolm Durrant, the great
traveller and explorer.  I have no expense whatever with the pony.  He
belongs to Robina, and she has won him by doing some extraordinarily
kind action--what, I cannot make out.  For goodness' sake, my dear
Felicia, _don't_ get so excited.  It is my turn to say `don't' to you
now.  Keep out of the way, if the news is not welcome to you.  The pony
is coming, and we can't prevent its coming; it will be here in no time,
and the children and Robina will, if I am not greatly mistaken, spend a
small part of to-day trying his paces."

"Then your two young children will be killed!" said Miss Felicia,
folding her hands and standing stock-still for a minute and then
preparing to leave the room.

A timid laugh from Violet, and a shriek of dismay from Rose greeted this
utterance.  But Robina clasped Rose in her arms.

"Oh, my pretty sweet!" she said.  "Bo-peep won't kill you.  I will get
into the side-saddle, and you shall sit in front of me, and I will put
my arm round your waist, and you'll be as steady and safe as old Time."

"As Ole Time!" echoed Rose, the tears arrested in her eyes.

"There is another bit of news, and you may as well have it first as
last," said Miss Jennings' brother-in-law.  "Robina leaves us in less
than a fortnight, to spend the rest of her holidays at a place called
Sunshine Lodge."

"And you permit this?" said Miss Felicia.

"Am I likely to refuse Malcolm Durrant?" was the response.

Miss Felicia felt vanquished; for even she respected Malcolm Durrant.
She left the room.

Book 2--CHAPTER FOUR.

THE PONY CONQUERS.

The pony was a beauty.  He was a glossy chestnut, with a white star on
his forehead.  He had gentle and wonderful eyes, and a way of raising
his feet from the ground, which showed his high breeding.  His different
points were pronounced first-rate.  In short, Bo-peep was a success.  He
took not only Robina herself, but the entire family of Starlings by
storm.  The very moment he arrived, he walked straight into their
hearts.  But his most marvellous conquest was that of Miss Felicia
Jennings.  That lady would not admit it for the world, but the fact was,
that Malcolm Durrant was her hero of heroes.  For years she had followed
his career with the deepest and most absorbing interest.  She had lived
in his adventures; she had read every word he ever wrote; her maiden
heart had thrilled through and through over his dangers and wild
adventures, and, in short, she could deny nothing to the person who had
so captivated her fancy.

She pretended, it is true, to be snappish and disagreeable about
Bo-peep; but when alone with this captivating little animal, she fed him
on apples, carrots, and stroked his nose, and even said foolish nothings
into his ear.  Bo-peep also look a fancy to her, and trotted up to her
when she came in view, and thrust his nose into her hand.

Robina was not more tolerated than usual, but that was of small
consequence; for Bo-peep could do what he liked with the household.  The
first day of his arrival passed in a sort of universal rejoicing.
Robina rode him with much majesty, and a lofty expression of face.  Her
little sisters in turn sat before her on the side-saddle.  Her friends
from the nearest house came to see, wonder, and congratulate.

The groom, Peter by name, was very nearly as much admired as was Bo-peep
himself.  Mr Starling openly announced that he had never enjoyed
himself so much before.  Peter was likely to prove a most valuable
acquisition to the family, and the only thing that was regretted was the
groom's determination never to eat food in the kitchen.

"Your tea will be always ready for you in case you wish for it," Miss
Felicia was heard to say.

But Peter replied stoutly that he had his orders, and that, in fact, he
had already secured for himself a room over the saddler's shop in the
village.

"But suppose Bo-peep should be ill in the night," said Miss Felicia.

At this the man smiled.

"'Tain't likely, madam," he said.  "The 'oss is a strong 'oss, and when
I leave him, after grooming him down and giving him his mash, he won't
want no one else to interfere with him until the morning."

Thus the arrival of Bo-peep was one of the happiest things that could
have happened to Robina.  The horse had, however, been two days at
Heather House before Mrs Starling heard of the event.  It was Robina
who broke the news to her.  She was busily engaged now getting ready her
wardrobe for her delightful visit to Sunshine Lodge.  Mrs Starling sent
her a message to come to see her.  The good lady was lying on a conch by
the window.

"Come in very gently, Robina," she said, "and try to make as little
noise as possible."

Robina advanced as quietly as she could.  She sank down by her mother's
sofa, put one firm hand over the invalid's tremulous one, and said, in a
broken sort of voice:

"Oh, mummy!"

"Don't be so intense, my dear; it makes my heart flutter."

"But aren't you better, mummy dear?  I have such a lot of things to talk
over with you."

"I cannot bear them, Robina; that is, if they are exciting.  Since you
came, I don't know how it is, but I have felt as though the whole house
was in a flutter.  This state of things is exceedingly bad for me, and
my palpitations are much worse in consequence."

"That is because you don't know," said Robina.  She leaned out of the
window.  There was a struggle in her heart.  If there was one thing more
than another that she pined and longed for, it was to take possession of
that poor, weak, suffering, nervous mother of hers, and give her some of
her own strength, some of her own life.  It was one of Robina's hidden,
unspoken griefs that her mother never understood her, and that she
turned away from her child to Aunt Felicia for sympathy.  Now Robina
thought and wondered.

"Mummy," she said, "I am going to speak in a very low voice, and you
need not get a bit excited.  But you see I am very happy."

"Ah, yes;" said Mrs Starling, still speaking almost in a whisper.  "I
understand, and I am not envious.  Happiness is very far from me, but I
am glad my children enjoy it--my children and my husband."

"But we want you to have it too."

"It is the will of Providence that I should lie here very weak and
suffering.  I must submit without a murmur," said the invalid.

"Mummy, let me talk to you.  I know you sent me away to school--"

"I cannot go into those things now, Robina.  I did not manage it; it was
your aunt."

"If Aunt Felicia were not here, you would depend on me; you know you
would, mummy."

"If your aunt were not here, I should die--if I had not her to comfort
me."

"Well, darling; she is here, and she does comfort you, I know; and we
are glad--father and I and Violet and Rose."

"Oh, the dear little children, they are quite sweet," said Mrs
Starling: "they are never strong and individual like you, Robin."

"But I can't help being individual, as you call it, mummy; and I am so
much older than the others."

"Yes; that is it: if you could only alway's stay a baby."

"Well, I cannot;" said Robina, losing some of her patience; "and what is
more, I don't wish to.  God meant me to be strong and to have, as you
call it, a personality.  Now listen.  I have got a pony--oh!  I have
such a pretty story to tell you about it, and how I won it."

"I can't listen to any story to-day."

"Well, anyhow, it is here; and even Aunt Felicia loves Bo-peep and I
want you to see him."

"Really, this is most extraordinary," said Mrs Starling.  "You have got
a pony?  Such a very great expense!  Who bought it for you?"

"Not father, mother.  I won him as a prize at school.  He has been sent
here by a good gentleman who gave the prize, but he costs nobody else
anything at all, and his name is Bo-peep: and what father and I think is
this: that we might presently have a basket chair got and Bo-peep could
draw you about the grounds.  Then you would get better, my own mummy;
and--and--I should be so happy!"

Robina waited tremblingly.  She wondered how her mother would take her
proposal.

"I am much too weak," said the invalid, after a pause, "even to go
downstairs, much less to venture outside to be drawn about by your pony.
But I always was interested in horses; we had a great many at my old
home; and if the pony could be brought where I could see him from this
window, it would--well--gratify me.  Can we manage it?"

"Oh yes, yes; I will go this minute."

"Don't rush wildly across the room and slam the door after you, I beg of
you."

"Oh, no, no.  I won't leave you at all.  I mean, I will just go
downstairs and give directions, and come back again myself."

"Do, my dear: I am really interested in horses."  Robina came back after
a minute or two, and by and by, there was a little commotion on the
badly kept lawn outside the house, for Bo-peep was led forward by Peter
the groom.  He wore his side-saddle, and perched on his back were both
little girls, who looked perfectly radiant, and who waved their hands
frantically to their mother.  Mr Starling stood by, so that the poor
nervous woman was not afraid of any accident happening; and lo! and
behold! also belonging to the group was Miss Jennings, and she held a
bunch of carrots in her hand.  This tempting _bonne bouche_ was far too
much for the greedy Bo-peep, who marched boldly up to the lady, rubbing
his nose against her, and requesting, as clearly as pony could speak,
more and more of his favourite dainties.

"What a pretty creature!" exclaimed Mrs Starling.  "Really, he reminds
me of my old favourite horse, Prince.  How happy and strong I was--as
strong as you are now, Robina--when I rode Prince."

"Shall we open the window, mummy?  You will see him better then."

Robina did so, and Mrs Starling came quite close, and bent a little out
of the window, and called Bo-peep once or twice in her faint voice.

"Oh, don't catch cold, dear!" screamed Miss Jennings from below.

"Don't interfere, dear?" responded Mrs Starling from above.

"Isn't he a beauty, mummy?  Isn't he a darling?" called Violet.

"He's Wobbin's and mine too!" cried Rose, bending her little body
forward, and clasping her arms round the pony's neck.

"Robina," said her mother, turning to her, "put on your habit, go
downstairs at once, and let me see you mount Bo-peep.  I do hope you
know how to spring properly into your saddle: I should like to see how
you manage it."

Robina did manage it, and to her mother's satisfaction.  The invalid was
better that evening, and the next day requested once again that Bo-peep
should be brought round for inspection.

And now an extraordinary thing happened: for from seeing the horse at a
distance, the good lady took an unreasonable desire--at least so it
seemed to Miss Jennings--to see him near: and as this could only be
accomplished by coming downstairs: downstairs she came, Bo-peep was then
led up to the dining-room window, and graciously received a carrot from
Mrs Starling's own hand.  By and by, she too was stroking his face, and
looking into his eyes, and murmuring his name in tones of the deepest
affection.  In short, Bo-peep was bidding fair to cure Mrs Starling.

But the fortnight which Robina was to spend at home was drawing to an
end, and the day was approaching when she, Bo-peep, and Peter, were to
leave Heather House en route for Sunshine Lodge.  Mrs Starling was
unreasonable about this.  She wanted Bo-peep to remain behind, and
Robina was quite willing that it should be so.

"I have got so much," she said; "and mother loves my little horse, and I
can think of him as a delightful creature to return to before I go back
to school."

But on this occasion, it was no less a person than Miss Felicia Jennings
who interfered.

"No, Robina," she said: "you _don't_ do anything of the sort.  That
great man, Malcolm Durrant, has given his orders, and I for one should
be the very last person to have them disregarded.  He wishes you to go
to him.  A command from him is like a command from Royalty, my child,
and must not for a moment be disregarded.  He wishes that precious
little animal, Bo-peep, to accompany you, and the animal is to go.  Your
mother did without the pony for years, and can do so still.  If indeed
we could afford to have a little carriage made for her, I believe we
could induce her to drive out daily with Bo-peep as her steed.  But as
your father can barely afford to pay your school expenses, that is not
to be thought of.  Now, my dear, you go in the morning: I trust you will
behave well.  By the way, you have offered to you, Robina, a marvellous
chance in life.  You have won the goodwill and esteem of no less a
person than Malcolm Durrant.  Oh! if only the chance were mine!  If
sometime you have the opportunity, tell him, my dear, how a dull old
maid in a country house in England revels in his work, and admires his
character.  Tell him that, if you like; and endeavour, Robina, to keep
down those faults which will very naturally, if he perceives them, turn
him against you.  For you are headstrong, and rough, and self-reliant,
and above all things, you need the grace of humility."

"Thank you, Aunt Felicia," said Robina.  "I know you are exceedingly
kind, and you mean well, but perhaps Mr Durrant understands me a little
better than you do."

"Now, there you are!" said her aunt; "as impertinent as ever!  Don't--I
beseech of you--make speeches of that sort to Malcolm Durrant.  Now go
up to your mother: she wants to see you.  She thinks you are improved.
I don't; but the opinion of an old maid never signifies."

"Oh, Aunt Felicia!"

Book 2--CHAPTER FIVE.

HARRIET'S JEALOUSY IS REKINDLED.

It is all very well for a little girl to repent as Harriet Lane repented
on that night when she followed Ralph to the gipsies' hiding-place.
Such repentances make a deep impression in life.  They are never, as a
rule, forgotten.  They influence the character, and if they are followed
by earnest resolve and patient determination to conquer in the battle,
they in the end lead to victory.  But let no one suppose who reads this
story that a girl with such a nature as Harriet possessed could easily
overcome her various faults.  It is true she was now really attached to
Ralph.  She had never cared for a little child before; but there was
something about Ralph that won her heart.  At the same time this very
affection of hers for the little boy added to her feelings of dislike
and envy towards Robina.  In her first agony of remorse for what she had
done; in her terror with regard to little Ralph, and her fear that he
was lost to her and to all her friends forever, she even thought gently
and kindly of Robina.  When Robina was made Ralph's school-mother, and
when she obtained the pony as her prize, Harriet submitted to her fate.
Nevertheless, the thought of Robina rankled in her mind, and when the
little girls met at Sunshine Lodge, it was Robina who was the first
thorn in Harriet's side.

Outwardly, it would have been impossible to find a merrier group than
those eight girls when they arrived in a waggonette at Sunshine Lodge.
Ample preparations had been made for their welcome.  Arches of evergreen
and flowers were put up over the gates and along the avenue; and over
the front door "Welcome, Welcome" appeared in letters of flowers.  In
every direction smiling faces were to be seen--smiling faces at the
lodge gates, smiling faces at the front door; and Mr Durrant, strong,
self-reliant, holding Ralph by the hand, was the most delightful sight
of all.

"Now, my children, you have come," he said.  "Ralph, greet all your
little mothers.  Ralph, my son, do the honours of the occasion.  There
are servants, my children, to show you to your rooms.  We shall meet at
tea-time.  You will be best alone with Ralph for the time being."

"Oh, my naughty, naughty, darling school-mother!" cried Ralph, flinging
himself into Harriet's arms.  He did go to her first, he did cling round
her neck, he did press his kisses to her thin cheek.  Before anyone
else, he was hers; her heart swelled with triumph.  But the next minute,
it sank with a feeling of ugly jealousy; for was not his clasp still
tighter round Robina's neck, and did he not whisper something into
Robina's ear, and did not Robina flush with pleasure?  The other mothers
also came in for a share of his rapture: but Harriet, keen to notice and
observe, felt that notwithstanding the fact that he had come to her
first of all, Robina must be his favourite.

The first couple of hours, however, spent at Sunshine Lodge were too
brilliantly, intoxicatingly happy for even jealousy to find much scope.
Harriet was hurried along with her companions from one room to another,
from one point of enjoyment to another.

When they had examined the house and expressed themselves satisfied with
their sweet little bedrooms, and when they had glanced at the tea-table,
and observed the numbers of cakes which it contained, and the vast piles
of bread and butter and the dishes full of jam and the plates of fruit
and the combs of honey, and all the other imaginable good things that go
to make up that meal of all meals--an English nursery tea, they were
hurried off to the stables.

Here were donkeys; donkeys enough for each girl to select one as her
special property; and here was Bo-peep, and Ralph's own lovely little
pony, Bluefeather.  Bluefeather was black as ink, and was only called
blue because Ralph liked the colour, and because the pony's mane was so
thick and strong and waved so in the wind.

Now at the sight of Bo-peep and Bluefeather standing side by side and
eyeing each other with considerable appreciation, Harriet's smouldering
jealousy woke into a fierce flame.  She felt a sudden sense almost of
sickness stealing over her.  Jane Bush was standing not far off.

"Come, Janie," she said, all of a sudden, speaking harshly and with
something of her old tone.  "I am tired of looking at stupid donkeys; I
don't want to choose my donkey this evening; come and let us take a walk
all by ourselves before we have to go in to tea."

"I say," called Ralph, "naughty school-mother, we are going to tea
almost immediately."

"Well, you can call me when you are ready for me," said Harriet, "I
shan't be far away."

She tugged at Jane's arm.  Now Jane was not in the least jealous; she
was charmed to possess a donkey.  A pony was, of course, preferable, but
to have a donkey all her own to call any name she liked for the whole of
the rest of the holidays was quite enough to fill her heart with
rejoicing.

"I shall call mine Thistle," she said.  "Don't you think that is a good
name, Harriet?"

"Oh, I am sure I don't care," said Harriet.  "Call it Thistle or Nettle,
or anything else you fancy; I am not interested in donkeys."

"Well, I am," said Jane, a little stoutly.  "Why should we go away,
Harriet?"

"Aren't you going to be friends with me any more, Jane?"

"Of course, only I thought--"

"Oh, _your_ thoughts! as if they signified," said Harriet.  "Look here,
Jane; do let's walk up and down in front of the house.  Of _course_
we're going to have a jolly time; but I want to have a little chat with
you, with you--my old, my oldest friend--all by ourselves."

"Oh, well," said Jane, mollified at once, "if you are going to make me
your friend, like we used to be before that dreadful day when Ralph ran
away, of course I shall be glad.  But I thought you were quite changed,
that you were the good-girl-for-evermore sort.  You know you did
repent--everyone in the school knew it, and on the whole, I was glad,
although you gave me up."

While Jane was speaking, the two girls had left the yard, and had
entered a little bowery path which led round to the left side of the
house.  Here they could be seen from the house, but could not be heard.
Harriet looked full at Jane when they found themselves in this bowery
retreat.

"Look here," she said, "I must out with it."

"Well?" said Jane, expectantly.  Jane looked stouter and rounder and
broader than ever.  "Well?" she repeated, fixing her black eyes on
Harriet's face.

"I am not a good-for-evermore sort of girl," said Harriet.  Then she
stood very still, and waited for Jane to reply.

Jane could not tell at that moment whether she was most glad or sorry.
Harriet had always rather frightened her, and since the date of
Harriet's repentance she, Jane, had had what might be expressed as a
very good and comfortable time.  She had got into no scrapes, she had
had of course no adventures; but then she had worked at her studies, and
had made such admirable progress that she even won a small prize at the
break-up.

Nevertheless, Jane had her own little jealousies, and although they were
not so marked as Harriet's--for her character was nothing like as strong
as the character of her friend--they did rankle in her breast.  To be
even the one confidante of the naughty girl of the third form was better
than to be no one's confidante at all; and from the moment of Harriet's
repentance, Jane had been feeling very safe, but just a little dull, and
just a tiny bit forsaken.  Now, therefore, to receive the old confidence
back again, to notice the daring look in Harriet's light blue eyes, and
to hear the old ring in her voice, awoke a certain very naughty pleasure
in Jane.

"Oh well," she said; "I thought your good fit couldn't last forever.
But what is it now?"

"I am just madly jealous of that Robina," whispered Harriet.

"Oh," said Jane; "it's the old thing!  But why can't you leave poor
Robina alone?"

"I can't: she has got Bo-peep."

"Well; of course she has," said Jane.  "You knew quite well she would
get Bo-peep from the moment that you made such a mess of things with
poor little Ralph, and he was handed over to Robina to mother him.  That
is no news, surely you ought to have got over that by now."

"I ought; but I haven't," said Harriet; "so where's the good of
`oughting' me about it?"

"I see you are the same as ever," said Jane in a low tone in which
satisfaction and perplexity were mingled.

"I am," said Harriet, "and what is more, if they think I am going to
ride one of those horrid donkeys, they are very much mistaken.  You can
mount on your Thistle, or your Nettle all by yourself, as far as I am
concerned.  If I can't have a pony like Bo-peep or Bluefeather, I shan't
ride at all."

"Oh, Harriet; you will make us all so unhappy, and it will look so bad,
and dear Mr Durrant won't like it."

"Dear Mr Durrant!" echoed Harriet in a tone of great contempt.  "He
ought not to expect a girl like me to ride a donkey; it is a sort of
reproach to me, that it is!"

"Oh, Harriet!  I never knew anyone quite so kind as Mr Durrant; and
then you will vex little Ralph; think of that; you do love Ralph."

"Yes," said Harriet, thoughtfully.  "On the whole, I love him very much.
I never cared for a little boy before; he is quite the nicest child I
have ever come across, but there are some things even about him that I
cannot bear.  I want him to stop calling me his naughty school-mother.
It is like for ever and for ever bringing up my little adventure with
him.  I am going to speak to him about that.  He shan't go on with it; I
mean to put a stop to it."

"Oh, but he does it so innocently," said Jane.

"It vexes me," interrupted Harriet, "and he shan't go on with it.  Then
I do want him not to show such a marked preference for Robina when I am
by.  I wish--I do wish--"

"What?" said Jane.

"That I could yet get him really to love me best.  The fact is this,
Janie.  I don't like Robina one little scrap more than I ever liked her;
and if I could open Ralph's eyes, and get him to see that she is not a
bit nice really; why--that would be something worth living for."

"I don't know how you are to manage it," said Jane; "and I think," she
added, "even if you could do it, it would be a very horrid thing to do."

"Oh! what a goody you are turning into!" was Harriet's response.  "Well,
I am going to put my wits in soak; I generally think out a way when I
have pondered it long enough.  Oh, trust me, Janie; and all I want from
you is this--"

"What?" asked Janie.

"Your help when the time comes."

"Oh, dear!" said Jane.  "That means something wicked!"

"You have a nice opinion of me, Jane."

"But it does, doesn't it?" said Jane.  "I cannot tell you how mean I
felt when I had to praise you all day long that day when I was Ralph's
school-mother.  I got positively sick of the feeling: I don't want to
have to do that again."

"You won't," said Harriet.  "It will be something quite different now.
But there's the tea-bell, and I am hungry.  I am so thankful that we
need not stand any longer in that yard looking at those hideous donkeys.
Let us run to the house; let's see who'll be there first!"

The tea was quite as delightful as healthy appetites and cheerful faces
round the board, and merry laughter and gay young voices could make it.
Mr Durrant himself was present at the tea-table, but he did not
preside.  It was Robina who on this occasion was given the position of
tea-maker.

"I am going to be fed and petted and fussed over," said Mr Durrant.  "I
say, you eight little mothers, you have got to mother me a bit; you have
got to keep my plate well supplied.  I have a ravening wolf inside me,
and he must be well fed.  I am good for any amount of cakes, and jam,
and bread and butter; so see you feed me.  Don't keep me waiting an
instant when my plate gets empty; and I am a whale on tea, I can tell
you; cup after cup I shall want.  The little mothers must keep me going
with fresh cups of tea.  Yes, Robina shall preside to-day--she is the
good school-mother--and Harriet to-morrow, and so on, and so on.  Now
then, let us fall into place.  Ralph, my son, take the lead; you are the
gentleman of the house on this occasion."

Book 2--CHAPTER SIX.

AN EVENTFUL MORNING.

The tea came to an end without any special adventure and afterwards the
children disported themselves to their hearts' content in the gardens.

The gardens were very extensive.  There were paddocks and lawns, and
running streams where some of the little mothers declared they could see
tiny minnows and other minute fish darting about; and there was a round
pond with water-lilies on it and there were many swings, and hammocks in
the trees.  Besides these delights, there were walled-in fruit gardens,
and great glass-houses inside which grew those rarest and most
fascinating flowers, orchids.

The children were allowed to explore all the houses on condition that
they picked nothing and invariably shut the doors behind them.  They all
had a great deal to see and to talk over, and even Harriet forgot her
jealousy and laughed and joked with the others.  Bed-time came all too
soon.  Eight sleepy little girls went up to their different rooms and
laid their heads on their pillow's, and fell sound asleep, and eight
very happy little girls, thoroughly refreshed and full of joyful
anticipation, awoke on the following morning.

They awoke to the fact that the sun was shining, that the sky was blue,
and that the sea in the distance was one dazzling blaze of sparkling
waves and exquisite colour.

At breakfast-time, Mr Durrant arranged that the entire party should
ride down to the beach, where those who wished could bathe, and those
who did not could play on the sands until it was time for early dinner.
Dinner was to be at one o'clock, and this was to be followed by a long
drive, which was to terminate in a vast picnic tea, where real tea was
to be made, and cakes, bread and butter and other things consumed.  The
party were to return to Sunshine Lodge rather late, and then Mr Durrant
would amuse them with a marvellous magic lantern which he possessed, and
would show them, as he expressed it, some of his adventures in South
Africa.

"Father doesn't often do that sort of thing," whispered Ralph to his
school-mother Robina.  "He doesn't even like to talk 'bout his
'ventures, 'cept when he's special pleased.  So you're all in good luck,
I can tell you."

"Oh, we are just too happy for anything!" said Robina.

"Now then, children," called Mr Durrant's voice from the other end of
the table; "if you have had sufficient breakfast, will you disperse,
please, and shall we all meet in the porch in a quarter of an hour?  Our
different steeds will be waiting for us, and we can each mount and ride
away."

It was at this moment that Jane cast a fearful, half-admiring,
half-beseeching glance at Harriet.  Now but for this glance of Jane's it
is quite possible that Harriet might have thought better of her
conversation of the previous day, and might have even mounted on her
donkey's back and ridden off, a happy, laughing child to the sea-shore.
Harriet adored the sea, having been brought up there when quite a little
child.  She could bathe; and swim like a little fish; and it did dart
through her mind how very superior she would be to her companions when
she was swimming about and they had to content themselves with simply
ducking up and down in the water.  Mr Durrant would be sure to admire
her when he saw what a good swimmer she was.  Harriet craved more for
admiration than for anything else in the world.  But now that look of
Jane's recalled her to her remark of the previous evening.

She had vowed that nothing would induce her to mount a donkey.  At any
sacrifice, therefore, she must keep her word.  If Jane thought little of
her, the world would indeed be coming to an end.

Accordingly, she sat very still, munching her bread and butter slowly,
and looking straight before her.  Robina, on the other hand, was in
great excitement.  She talked openly and, as Harriet said to herself, in
the most abominable taste, of the delicious ride she would have on
Bo-peep's back to the sea-shore.

"You will ride with me on Bluefeather; won't you, Ralph?" she said to
the little boy.

"In course I will!" he said.

In his white drill sailor-suit Ralph made the most lovely little
picture.  Harriet looked up at that moment, and caught his eye.  Ralph,
quick to perceive when anyone was in trouble, immediately left Robina,
and flew to Harriet's side.

"What can I do for you, naughty school-mother?" he said.

"Look here, Ralph; I won't be called by that name," said Harriet.  "I
dislike it very much.  If you think me naughty, you ought not to speak
to me."

"Oh--I--I love you!" said Ralph.

"Then show it in some less unpleasant way," said Harriet, who now that
she had given tongue to some of her grievance, flew in a regular
passion; "and," she added, rising as she spoke, "I don't know what the
rest of you mean to do, but I shan't ride this morning.  I don't like
riding donkeys, so that's all about it."  She got up and marched from
the room.  Mr Durrant had already gone.  The eyes of the rest of the
school-mothers followed her, and Jane's face grew first white and then
pink.

"Oh Jane," said Robina, the minute Harriet had gone, "what _is_ the
matter now?  I am sure I don't mind riding one of the donkeys and
Harriet can have Bo-peep.  Do run after her and tell her so; do, please,
Jane.  It'll spoil all our fun if she doesn't come down; please get her
to come."

"But," said Ralph, "I know father will want you to ride Bo-peep, Robina;
for he said so last night.  He said he had not seen you yet on Bo-peep,
and he was ever so anxious to, and 'sides--your habit wouldn't fit
Harriet: Harriet is much thinner than you."

"Yes; I never thought of that," replied Robina.  "Well, I do wish she
wouldn't be so troublesome.  Shall I go and find her, and try and bring
her round to a proper sense of things; it is too hard that she should
spoil all the fun."

"No, don't; there is no use in it," said Jane.

"But I will," said Robina; "she must not be so inconsiderate.  Think
what dear Mr Durrant will say.  Ralph, my darling, come with me and
coax poor Harriet.  You know she loves you very much."

"Yes; let's coax her," said Ralph.

He took Robina's hand and they left the dining-room.  As they were going
upstairs Ralph said, still clinging hard to Robina's hand:

"I love Harriet, but I love you much, much, _much_ the best."

"Love us both," said Robina, "and don't say which of us you love best."

"Oh, I can't help it," said Ralph.  "Harriet's nice sometimes, but you
are nice always, and I am very glad you have got Bo-peep."

"Well, we must do our very best to make Harriet come with us to-day,"
said Robina, and she knocked as she spoke at that young lady's door.

A sulky voice from within murmured something, and Robina opened the
door.  Harriet was standing with her back to the door.  She was
pretending to gaze out of the window.  When the knock came, she imagined
that it was Jane, coming to expostulate with her.  Had this happened,
she would probably have given vent to her feelings in no measured
language; but when she turned and saw Robina, the smouldering fire in
her breast rose to white heat.

"Go away!" she said, just glancing at Robina and Ralph and then resuming
her position with her back to them.  "I am busy at present: go away."

"You aren't busy, Harriet," said Ralph, laughing; "why, you're doing
nothing at all."

"Yes I am; I am thinking; go away, both of you, I don't wish to talk to
you."

"Oh, Harriet!" said Ralph.  There was a cry of pain in his voice, and
just for a minute Harriet's resolve to be intensely disagreeable
wavered; but Robina's voice recalled her to her worst self.

"Ralph, I must!" she whispered.  Then she said aloud: "I do want you to
ride Bo-peep this morning, Harriet.  And you can easily wear my habit,
although it may be a little big for you.  Please, Harriet, do come
downstairs and be nice and jolly with us all.  You shall ride Bo-peep,
and I will ride whichever donkey you have selected.  I love riding a
donkey, it is such fun."

"Oh!" said Harriet; "oh!--before I'd demean myself to tell such lies!
You love to ride on a donkey, do you?  Then ride one, I am sure I don't
care.  But as to my demeaning myself by getting on your pony's back--I
may be small, but I'm not as small as all that!  No: go, both of you; I
hate and detest you both.  Ralph, you need not consider me your mother
any more.  I am not your school-mother--I am nothing at all to you.  I
am just a very cross, angry girl and oh, do go away, please!"

"Come, Ralph," said Robina.

She took the little boy to the door.  She opened the door; she pushed
Ralph outside.

"You are just angry, Harriet," she said then; "but I know you will be
sorry by and by; and indeed, indeed, neither Ralph nor I are what you
think us."

"Oh go--go!" said Harriet; and Robina went.

The moment this happened, Harriet flew to the door, and locked it.

"Now am I to be left in peace?" she thought.  She was in a white heat of
rage.  At that moment, there was no bitter, angry, nor desperate thing
she would not say.  She knew perfectly well that she had injured her own
cause; that now Ralph could never love her.  Had she not told him to his
face that she hated him?--little Ralph, who had never from his birth had
one harsh word addressed to him.  Had she not said--oh, with such
vehemence, such hot, angry rage, that she detested him, that she could
not bear him in her presence?  Well, she did not care.  She was in too
great a fury at present to regret her own words.  Robina and Ralph had
taken her at her word: they had gone away.  There was absolute stillness
upstairs.  Sunshine Lodge was a big house, and to Harriet's bedroom not
a sound penetrated.  She could not even hear the merry voices of the gay
cavalcade that must even now be starting for the sea-shore.

They would have to ride quite three miles to that part of Eastbourne
where Mr Durrant had arranged that bathing tents were to be erected on
the beach.  Harriet sat down on the low window-sill, clasped her hands
and looked out.  Why was she here?  She might have been as jolly as the
others.  Oh, no; of course she could not possibly be merry and gay like
the rest of the children; it was not in her nature.  Nevertheless, she
had looked forward to her time at Sunshine Lodge.  She had made a great
boast to her brothers and sisters and to her home companions, of the gay
and delightful time she was about to have.  Well, why was not she having
it?  The sun was shining, the sky was blue, the distant sea looked, oh!
so inviting.  The crisp waves were even now coming up on the sands and
retreating again with their everlasting `I wish, I wish' sort of sound.
There were the donkeys for the contented children to ride, and there was
the kindest of all hosts to give them every happiness.  Why was she out
of it?

"Because I am so mad, and bad!" she thought; and then she covered her
face with her hands and burst into angry tears.

Harriet was neither sorry nor repentant, as she had been on that
occasion when little Ralph was lost.  She was furious at once with
herself and with Robina, and even with Ralph.  Why did Robina come
prying and spying to her room? and why did she dare to bring Ralph with
her? and then why did she make that detestable, hypocritical offer to
her?  Harriet, indeed, to be seen riding Robina's pony!--the pony given
to Robina by Mr Durrant because she had been so kind to his little son!
What a martyr Robina would look on one of the donkeys! and what a
monster of selfishness she, Harriet, would appear riding on Bo-peep's
back!  Oh, yes: Robina wanted to serve her own ends when she would
bestow on Harriet the favour of letting her ride her pony.

"She thinks she is not sure of Ralph: she thinks she is not quite sure
of Mr Durrant.  She meant to clinch matters with both of them by her
pretended unselfishness this morning," thought the furious girl.

"But I have circumvented her: I am glad I have."  However angry one may
be; however furious one's passions may become, it is difficult to keep
up the anger and the commotion and the fierce storm within the breast
when there is no one to listen, no one to watch, no one, either, to
sympathise or to blame.  In the stillness of her little room Harriet's
angry heart cooled down.  Her cheeks no longer blazed with fury, her
eyes no longer flashed.  After her time of storm, she felt a sort of
reaction which made her cold and dull and miserable.  She was not a bit
repentant, except in as far as regarded her own pleasure.  But she was
weary, and came to the conclusion that her life at Sunshine Lodge would
not be such a happy one after all.

When she had reached this stage of discomfort and depression, there came
a tap at her room door, and one of the maids tried to turn the handle.
Harriet then remembered that she had locked the door.  She went and
opened it.  The girl asked with a smiling face if she could arrange the
young lady's room.

"Certainly," said Harriet.  "I am going out."

She took a big straw hat from a peg on the door and put it on her head.

"I made sure, miss, that you were away to the shore with the others."

"I did not go with them," said Harriet.

"I hope, miss," said the girl, glancing at Harriet, and observing the
red rims round her eyes, "I hope that you ain't ill, miss."

"No, I am quite well, thank you; but the fact is, I don't care for
donkey rides.  I am going out now, so you can arrange my room as soon as
you like."

"Thank you, miss," replied the girl.

Harriet ran downstairs.  The hall door stood wide open: a little gentle
breeze came in and fluttered the leaves of some books on the hall table.
The air was sun-laden, and Harriet was glad to get out-of-doors.  The
little place seemed still and undisturbed; but by and by she came to a
gardener's boy, and then to the gardener himself.  They both touched
their hats to her.  She wandered on and on.  Presently, she reached the
round pond.  Here the water-lilies grew in profusion--great yellow cups,
and still larger white ones.  Harriet felt that desire which comes to
almost every child to possess herself of some of the great waxen
blossoms.  She bent forward and tried to pick one.  She could not manage
it, however, for the flowers with their thick stems were hard to gather,
and she knew that were she to try any harder she might fall into the
pond.  This she had no wish to do, and contented herself with standing
by the bank.

As she was thus standing, wondering what she should do next, she heard a
clear little voice say:

"Hallo there!" and Ralph bounded out of a thick undergrowth close by.

"Ralph?" said Harriet.  She felt herself colouring.  Shame absolutely
filled her eyes.  She did not want to look at the boy, and yet, in spite
of every effort, her heart bounded with delight at seeing him.

"Did you want some of those?" said Ralph, eagerly.

"I will pick them for you.  I know quite well how I can manage.  See,"
he added eagerly, "do you notice that willow tree growing right over the
pond?  I will climb along that branch, just where it dips so near the
water, and I'll put my hand out, and cut off some of the beautiful
blossoms for you.  Aren't they just lovely?"

"Yes," said Harriet, "but I don't want them.  Don't endanger your
precious life for me, Ralph, it isn't worth while."

As Harriet spoke, she turned away, marching with her head in the air in
the opposite direction.  She heard a cry, or fancied she heard one; and
a minute afterwards, eager steps followed her.

"Harriet," said Ralph's little voice.  He slipped his hand inside her
arm.  "What has I done?  Why do you hate me, Harriet?  What has I done?"

Harriet looked round.  Then for a minute she stood quite still.  Then,
all of a sudden, her eyes fell; they fell until they reached the brown
beseeching eyes of Ralph.  Over her whole heart there rushed such a
sensation of love for the boy that she could not restrain herself
another moment.

"Oh, Ralph!" she said, with a sob.  "I am about the nastiest girl in all
the world.  But I do, I do love you!  Oh Ralph, Ralph!"

She flung her arms around him, dropping on her knees to come nearer to
him.  Just for a minute, she gave him a fierce kiss; then she let him
go.

"It is Robina I hate," she said; "it is not you."  Ralph gave a sigh.

"I am glad you don't hate me," he said, "'cause you see I love you."

"And why aren't you with the others?" said Harriet, suddenly.

"Couldn't," said Ralph, shaking his head.  "Stayed a-hint 'cause of you;
wanted to be with you--couldn't go."

"Then you do really love me?"

"I has said so," answered Ralph.

A warm glow such as a fire might make entered Harriet's heart.  She sank
down on the mossy turf and drew Ralph to sit near her.

"You are very nice," she said.  "I am very, very glad you stayed.  But
what did your father--what did he do?"

"Father?" said Ralph, in a surprised tone.  "Nothing, in course."

"But he wanted you to go, surely?"

"I said to father I must stay home this morning 'cause of one of my
school-mothers."

"And then?" said Harriet.

"Father--he said, `Send Bluefeather back to the stables.'"

"Then, Ralph?--and was that all?" asked Harriet.

"'Course," said Ralph.  "Father don't question 'less at something very
naughty."

"Oh," answered Harriet.  After a pause, she said: "He didn't ask you
which of your school-mothers?"

"No," said Ralph.  "Think he guessed, though."

"Did your father go with the others to the sea-shore?"

"Oh, yes: he went in the governess cart.  He drove the donkey that drew
the governess cart his own self."

"You must have been very sorry to give up your fun," said Harriet.

"'Course," said Ralph.

"But you did it for me?"

"'Course," said Ralph again.  He concealed nothing, denied nothing.  He
looked full now into Harriet's face.

"What is the matter?" she asked.

"You said you hated Robina and me; then you said afterwards that you did
not hate me--you loved me, but you hated Robina.  I want you to love us
both.  By the time Robina comes back, I want you to be a-loving of her
as hard as you're a-loving of me."

"Well, I can't do that," said Harriet, "so there is no use wishing it."

Ralph sighed.  "She is very, very good," he said.  "Ralph," said
Harriet, suddenly; "there are some things I cannot bear."

"What?" asked the little boy.

"I love you, and I can't bear you to be fondest of Robina."

"Very sorry," said Ralph, shaking his curly head.

"Don't you think," said Harriet, drawing him close to her and fondling
his chubby hand, "that you could manage to love me best?  I want your
love more than Robina does."

"Sorry," said Ralph again.

"Then you do love her best?"

"'Course," said Ralph, "much best."

Harriet pushed him away.

"Then I don't want to sit with you," she said, "nor talk to you.  Go to
Robina altogether.  I--I suppose I am jealous; it is a horrid thing to
be, but I suppose I am.  You needn't have stayed at home for me this
morning.  I don't hate you; I was in a passion when I said I did; I love
you very much but--I can't stand a love like yours, the greater part of
which is given to Robina."

"Shall I tell you why I love her?" said Ralph.  "'Cause she is strong
and good and brave, and she teaches I lots of things; and she lets I
look into her face; and she tells stories--wonderful stories!"

"Yes," said Harriet.  She was gazing intently at the child.

"Now you doesn't," said Ralph.  "You did one day when I was with you,
one day when you gave me picnic breakfast and we went to town and bought
things for a picnic tea.  But Robina does it every day; and I feel that
she is strong, and--and--I can't help it--I have to love her best."

"I will tell you what I am," said Harriet; "you had best know me for
what I really am.  I don't like Robina just for the simple reason that
she is stronger than me, and she can tell better stories, and she has
got Bo-peep and I have not; and she is cleverer than me and has taken my
place in the form.  I was happy enough before she came to school, but I
am not happy now."

"I am _so_ sorry," said Ralph.  "It seems an awfu' pity, 'cause she
can't help being clever.  My father's clever: he can't help it.  Does
you hate him 'cause of his big, big brains?"

"Oh, no, no--it's quite different.  You don't understand what friendship
means, Ralph."

"Yes, I do: Robina tells me.  When your friend isn't happy, you're not
happy; that's one thing 'bout friendship.  And you would do anything for
your friend--anything: that's another.  I heard father once speak of
that.  He did a wonderful big thing for a friend of his.  I am always
wanting to do a big thing for Robina, and a big thing for you.  I know
it isn't much, but I did stay home for you this morning."

"So you did; and you are a dear little boy; and I wish I wasn't such a
horror myself," said Harriet suddenly.  "Leave me, now.  Ralph: after
all, there is nothing you can do for me.  I am cross, I suppose, but
I'll be better by-and-by."

Ralph went away very sadly.  He could not understand Harriet.  His
beautiful morning was wasted.  Suddenly, he found himself back again by
the round pond.  The lilies were looking more lovely than ever in the
sun.  A dragon fly had just got out of his chrysalis, and Ralph watched
him for a moment as he poised for flight.

All of a sudden, the wish to pick some water-lilies for Harriet returned
to him.  He would show her by this means how truly he loved her.  She
did want the lilies, he knew it, for he had seen her tugging so hard at
one.  "And she just lost her balance," he said to himself.  "Poor, poor
Harriet: It would have been horrid if she had falled into the pond!"

The thought of getting some lilies for Harriet restored the little boy's
sense of happiness.  He was his father's own son, and knew no fear.
Harriet was one of his school-mothers--the school-mother he loved second
best.  He made up his mind quickly to pluck three yellow lilies for her,
and four white ones.  That would be seven in all.  Someone had told him
that seven made a perfect number.  He could easily reach the lilies if
he climbed the willow tree, and gently pushed himself along that branch
which bent over the pond.

No sooner did the thought come than he proceeded to put it into action.
The supple bough, however, bent very low beneath his weight.  Ralph was
but a little boy, however, and the bough would undoubtedly hold him if
he did not go too far along its slender stem.  He had plucked one lily,
and his little hand had grasped a second, when all of a sudden there was
an ominous crack at the further end of the bough.  It bent so low into
the water now that Ralph's balance was upset, and he found himself
struggling in the deep pond.  Ralph was not a minute in the water before
Harriet, who was really not far off, rushed to the spot.  Into the pond
she plunged, seized the boy by his collar and dragged him with some
slight difficulty to the shore.  They were both very wet, but neither of
them in the least hurt.  Harriet stood by, dripping from head to foot.

"Oh, Ralph, Ralph!" she cried.  "Did you do that to show that you loved
me?"

"Yes; oh yes;" said Ralph.  "Why, I nearly died for you, and you nearly
died for me!"

"We must be the best and greatest of friends now," said Harriet, quick
to seize the opportunity.  "But come into the house at once; you must
get all your things off, or you will catch cold.  Oh, and Ralph; promise
me one thing--this shall be a secret between you and me.  You will never
tell anybody that you risked your life to get me the flowers, and I will
never tell a soul that I risked mine to save you."

"Oh--but you are splendid!" said Ralph.  "Why, I should be dead now but
for you, Harriet."

"Of course you would, Ralph," she answered; but she took care not to
tell him that she was an excellent swimmer and had not risked her life
in the very least when she sprang into the pond to save the little boy.

Book 2--CHAPTER SEVEN.

MR DURRANT'S NEW PLAN.

Harriet took Ralph to her own room.  There she changed all his things
and made him get into her bed until she could fetch some fresh ones for
him.  He was cold, and shivering a great deal, but Harriet, quite
unacquainted with the illnesses of young children, was not in the least
alarmed.  She ransacked Ralph's wardrobe for another little drill suit,
and he was dressed in new, dry clothes, and all trace of his ducking in
the pond was removed before the party returned from their picnic.

Harriet herself had remained much longer than Ralph in her wet things,
but she also was in fresh garments when they stood holding each other's
hands ready to welcome the others on their return.

Somehow, that ducking in the pond had quite managed to restore Harriet's
good humour.  She and Ralph now held a secret between them, and she was
firmly convinced that his friendship for Robina must be seriously
weakened thereby.

"Why, Ralph, my little man," said his father, "you do look well."

He was pleased to see how bright his little son's eyes were and what a
high colour he had in his cheeks, and never guessed that the brightness
of the eyes was caused by slight fever, and that the pretty cheeks were
flushed for the same reason.  At dinner time.  Ralph, of his own accord
elected to sit near Harriet, and at intervals during the meal he
whispered in her ear:

"None of them knew 'cept you and me I risked my life for you, and you
risked your life for me."

"Yes, yes," whispered Harriet back; "but none of the others must know.
Don't say those words so loud, Ralph, or they will hear us."

Ralph snuggled close to Harriet, now in an ecstasy at the thought which
the great secret they held between them caused.  The rest of the day's
programme was carried out in all its entirety.  But towards evening,
Ralph's feverish symptoms had increased.  During the picnic tea he was
unable to eat anything, and Harriet when questioned had to confess that
her throat was sore.

The next day both Harriet and Ralph were ill, but Harriet was much worse
than Ralph.  To be in bed, to be unable to get up and enjoy the fresh
air and the sunshine was a trial very hard for so small a boy as Ralph
to bear; but when he was told that Harriet was worse than he, and that
the doctor had to be sent for, he submitted to his own illness with a
good grace.  It was Robina who brought him the tidings.

"Harriet is really ill," she said; "but Dr Fergusson says that you will
very soon be all right again; you have only caught a little cold: I
wonder how you managed it."

"Oh, I know quite well all about it," said Ralph.

"Do you, dear? then you ought to tell us," said Robina.

Ralph's soft brown eyes flashed with anger.

"Does you think I'd be so mean?" he said.

Robina looked at him in surprise.  After a long time he made the
following remark:

"Harriet is quite the most noble girl in the world.  If it was not for
Harriet, there'd be no me at all."

Robina burst into a merry laugh.

"Oh, Ralph; you funny little boy!" she said; "what are you talking
about?"

"You don't understand Harriet," was Ralph's next speech, and he looked
at Robina without the favour he used to bestow upon her.  She was his
school-mother and, of course, the one he loved best; but still she had
never saved his life.

"I wish I could see my darling Harriet," he said, after a pause.  "I
wish I could see her all by my lone self.  I want to talk to her.  We
has a great secret atween us."

The doctor, however, had forbidden Ralph to leave his bed that day, and
certainly Harriet could not leave hers.  In consequence, the children
did not meet for a few days, and then it was rather a pale little boy
who rushed into the arms of a thin, pale girl who, weak from the
somewhat severe attack she had gone through, was seated in an easy chair
not far from an open window.

"Now go 'way, all of you," said Ralph, "I want to talk to my ownest
school-mother.  I has a great secret to talk over with her."

The others obeyed without any protest.  Robina, when she left the room,
turned to Jane.

"I am sure of one thing," she said: "something must have happened that
day when Ralph and Harriet were left alone together.  They were both
quite well even although Harriet was cross when we started on our
expedition to the beach; but they both got ill that very night, and
since then, Ralph has altered: he is devoted to Harriet."

"Perhaps he has learned to love Harriet best," said Jane.

In spite of herself, there was a tone of triumph in her voice, for was
not Harriet her friend, and did not every one else adore Robina?

"Would you mind?" she asked, fixing her round black eyes now on Robina's
face.

"Mind?" replied Robina.  "Yes," she said, after a little pause, "I don't
like to own to such a horrid feeling, but I am proud of Ralph's love."

She turned away as she spoke.  She was going to her own room.  In order
to reach it, she had to pass the tiny chamber where Ralph slept.  She
found one of the maid-servants coming out.  The woman had in her hand a
little white drill suit all soaked through and much stained with the
green weed which grows on ponds.

"I have just found this, miss," she said, "in the cupboard in Master
Ralph's room.  I wonder how it came there.  Surely, little Master Ralph
has not had a ducking in the pond."

Robina felt the colour rushing into her face.  For a minute, a sense of
triumph filled her.  Then she said, gently:

"Send that suit to the wash, please, Maria; and," she added, "do not say
anything about it."

"There are stockings too, miss, all sopping, and shoes."

"You can have the shoes dried, can't you?" said Robina.

"Oh, yes, miss, certainly."

"Well, send all the other things to the wash."

"Yes, miss," said the girl.  "Perhaps," she added, after a pause, "these
things account for little Master Ralph not being well for the last few
days."

"They may or may not, Maria: anyhow, we won't talk about that," said
Robina.

She went downstairs.  Her heart was beating fast.  The fierce desire to
drag the truth from Harriet at any cost, which had overpowered her for a
minute, had passed away.  Her face was pale.  She sat down on the
nearest chair.

"Are you tired, my dear?" said Mr Durrant, approaching her at this
minute, and sitting down by her side.

"No; not really tired," she answered.

"I am glad to find you all by yourself, Robina; there are many things I
want to say to you."  Robina waited expectantly.  "You and Ralph are
capital friends, aren't you?"

"I hope so, indeed--indeed I love him dearly," said Robina.

"And so does he love you.  I cannot tell you, Robina, how thankful I am
that he has made a girl of your sort one of his greatest friends; he
might so very easily have chosen otherwise.  There is Harriet Lane, for
instance.  Poor Harriet, I don't want to speak against her, but she is
not your sort, my dear.  Now I like an open mind, generous--if you will
have it, a manly sort of girl, one with no nonsense in her: one, in
short, who will help Ralph to be the sort of man I desire him to be by
and by.  You, my dear, as far as I can tell, are that sort of girl.  You
have no fear in you.  You have, I think, an open mind and a generous
disposition.  Compared to Ralph, you are old, although of course in
yourself you are very young.  I shall have to leave my little boy
immediately after the summer holidays.  My wish was to send him to
school--to Mrs Burton's school--where he could have had a little
discipline, school life, and the companionship of many young people.
But I have received a letter from Mrs Burton which obliges me to alter
my plans."

"Oh," said Robina, speaking quickly, "I am very, very sorry--"

"So am I, dear, more sorry than I can express.  I am terribly upset
about this letter, and I do not think it wrong to confide my trouble to
you."  Here Mr Durrant drew his chair close to Robina's side.

"You see, my dear child, I treat you as though you were grown-up."

"Please do, Mr Durrant," said Robina, "for there is nothing I would not
do for you."

"Well, this is the position," said Mr Durrant.  "Mrs Burton won't be
able to conduct her own school for the next term.  She has induced a
lady, a great friend of hers, to take the school over, and her hope is
that she may be able to return to it herself after Christmas.  Even
this, however, is doubtful.  Mrs Burton's friend, Miss Stackpole, has
had much experience of schools, but she is a maiden lady; and, in short,
will not admit dear little Ralph as one of her pupils.  Mrs Burton is
obliged to spend the next term with her only sister, who is dangerously
ill, and must undergo a serious operation.  My plans, therefore, for
Ralph are completely knocked on the head.  I cannot possibly take him
with me to South Africa.  I have undertaken an expedition to that
country which is full of adventure and danger.  No young child could
accompany me.  I cannot bear to send Ralph to the ordinary boys' school;
and, in fact, my dear Robina, it has occurred to me that if I could
possibly get a lady, trustworthy, kind, sensible, to keep on this house,
I might induce you to stay with her as Ralph's companion.  Were this the
case, I would myself undertake all your future education.  You should
have the best masters, the best mistresses that money could secure, and
eventually, if you wish it, you should go to Newnham or Girton.  I would
see your father, my dear Robina, on the subject, and arrange the matter
with him.  You would have a right good time, for the lady I have in my
mind's eye is a certain Miss Temple, a cousin of my own, a very gentle
and sweet woman, who would do all she could for your comfort and
happiness, and would not unduly coerce you.  Being Ralph's
school-mother, and the girl he has chosen above all others as his
special friend, I doubt not that he would love the arrangement.  As to
your fees at Mrs Burton's school, those can, of course, be managed.
What do you say, Robina?  Are you willing to continue at Sunshine Lodge
as my dear little boy's greatest friend--in fact, as his little
school-mother?"

"Oh, I should like it!" said Robina.  "But does it not depend on Ralph?"
she continued.

Mr Durrant moved rather impatiently.  "I have never coerced Ralph in
the least," he answered.  "My endeavour has been from his birth to allow
my dear little boy to choose for himself.  I believe in the young, clear
judgment of extreme youth.  I think that little children can penetrate
far.  Of all your school-fellows he chose you, Robina; and who, my dear
child, could have been more worthy?"

"But I am full of faults," said Robina, tears springing to her eyes;
"you don't really know me.  At home I am often blamed.  My Aunt Felicia
doesn't think highly of me.  You ought to go to my home and ask my own
people what they really think with regard to me."

"It is my intention to do so.  I must talk to your father and mother
about this plan; but somehow, I do not think they will disappoint me,
and as a matter of fact I do not believe any little girl could better
help my little son than you can."

"Only suppose--suppose," said Robina, "that he prefers Harriet."

"Harriet?" cried Mr Durrant; "but there is surely no chance of that?"

"I don't know, I am not sure.  He likes Harriet certainly next best
after me; he may even like her better."

"I think not: you are without doubt the favoured one.  Robina, we are
all alone now.  Harriet Lane is your schoolfellow.  Tell me honestly
what you think about her."

Robina sprang to her feet.

"As her schoolfellow," she said, hastily, "I cannot tell you anything
about her; please don't ask me.  This, Mr Durrant, is a very serious
matter, and I--I would rather not say."

"You have answered me, my child," said Mr Durrant, "and as I thought
you would.  Now, we will talk no more on the matter."

Robina left him, and went into the grounds.  The happy summer days were
slipping by.  Why is it that summer days will rush past one so quickly
on such swift wings, that almost before we know it, they have all gone--
never, never to return?

The eight little school-mothers at Sunshine Lodge wanted no one good
thing that could add to the joys of life.  From morning till night,
their cup of bliss seemed to overflow.  In addition to all the pleasures
provided for them, they had perfect weather, for that summer was long to
be remembered in England--that summer when day by day the sun shone in
the midst of a cloudless sky, and the warm, mellow air was a delight
even to breathe.

While on this occasion Mr Durrant was having a long talk with Robina
and giving her to understand what he really wished with regard to the
future of his little son, that same little son was pouring out his heart
to Harriet.

"You is better, isn't you?" he said.

"Yes," replied Harriet, who had resolved to make the very most of
things.  "But I was ill, very ill indeed: I don't think the doctor
expected me to live."

"And you'd have died--you'd have become deaded for me?" said Ralph.

"Yes," answered Harriet, patting the little brown hand.  "But I am all
right now," she added; "I am only weak."

"I love you like anything," said Ralph.

"Of course you do, Ralph," answered Harriet.

"There is nothing at all I wouldn't do for you."

Harriet longed to say: "Love me better than Robina, and I will have
obtained my heart's desire."  But she did not think the time for this
speech had come yet; and as, in reality, notwithstanding her affection
for Ralph, she found herself from time to time rather worried by his
presence, she now requested him to leave her, and the little boy ran
downstairs and out into the open air.

There the first person he saw was his father.

"Oh, dad!" said the boy, dancing up to his parent, and putting his
little hand in his.

"Well Ralph, old man," said the great traveller, lifting the boy to his
shoulder, "and how are you this afternoon?"

"Werry well," said Ralph, "nearly quite well," he added.

"And how is our other invalid, Harriet Lane?"

"She is better, father.  Dear Harriet has been _awfu'_ bad.  Did you
guess, father, how bad she was?"

"No, my son: and I don't think she was as bad as all that, for the
doctor did not tell me so."

"But she telled me her own self.  She wouldn't tell a lie, would
Harriet."

"Only, Ralph, when people are ill, they imagine they are much worse than
they really are.  That was the case with Harriet.  She will be all right
now in a day or two, and you can enjoy yourself as soon as possible."

"Oh yes; oh yes!" said Ralph.  He clasped one arm round his father's
neck.  "Why has you got such a big brown neck?"

"Because, I suppose, I am a big brown man."

"I love brown men ever so," said Ralph.

"That is right."

"And I love you best of all; and--and Harriet, and Robina.  I has got
three very great special friends--you, and Harriet, and Robina."

"Why do you put them like that, Ralph?" answered his father, a certain
uneasiness in his tone.  "You mean it this way: you love father first--
that is quite right--then comes Robina, then Harriet."

"It used to be like that," said Ralph, in a very low tone.

"And it is still, my son; it is still."

Ralph fidgetted, and was silent.  After a time he said:

"Put me down please, father."

Mr Durrant obeyed.

"Take my hand, father," said Ralph, "I want to lead you somewhere."

Mr Durrant took the little hand.  Ralph conducted his father to the
edge of the round pond.

"Does you see the water over there?" said Ralph, "just over there where
the lilies grow?"

"Of course, my dear boy."

"And does you see the branch of the willow tree?"

"Well, yes, Ralph; having eyes, I see both the lilies and the willow
tree."

"Could you make a great, great guess, father, about how deep the water
is there?"

"Roughly speaking," said Mr Durrant, "I should say the water in that
part was from seven to eight feet deep."

Ralph straightened himself and looked full up at his father.

"I isn't eight feet high, is I?"

Mr Durrant laughed.

"You little man," he said, "you are not four feet yet."

"Then if I was to stand bolt upright in that water where the lilies
grow, I'd be drownded dead as dead could be?"

"Were such a thing to happen, you would be."

"But if somebody swimmed out, somebody very, very brave, and clutched
me, and brought me back to shore, I wouldn't be a drownded boy; I'd be a
saved boy," said Ralph.

"That is true."

"I'd most likely," continued Ralph, "love that person very much."

"It would be a brave thing to do, certainly," said Mr Durrant.  "But
then it has not happened, Ralph, so don't let your imagination run away
with you."

"No father," said Ralph; "I won't let my 'magination run 'way with me.
I don't quite know what it means, father; but--I won't let it,--'cause
then I shouldn't be close to you, father; and I love you best, and then
Harriet, and then Robina."

"Robina is a very fine girl," said his parent.  "I like her very much; I
am glad she is your friend."

"So does I like her: she was my school-mother.  I like Harriet too,
father: I like her _awfu'_ much.  I mustn't tell you nothing at all, but
I like Harriet best of all my school-mothers."

Mr Durrant thought for a short time over Ralph's little speech to him.
It puzzled the good man not a little.  He did not, however, lay it
deeply to heart.  The boy was under the influence of Harriet, and, truth
to tell, Mr Durrant did not take to that young lady.  He was, however,
sufficiently interested in her to pay her a visit that same evening in
her own room.

She was a good deal startled and somewhat nonplussed when he first
knocked at the door, then bent his tall head and entered the room.

"Well, Harriet," he said, "I thought I would find out for myself how you
are.  I hope you are progressing well, and will soon be able to join the
rest of us.  It was strange how you and Ralph both caught cold the same
day: it was very unlucky.  How are you to-night, my dear girl?"

"Better," said Harriet, changing colour as she spoke, for she was rather
weak from her illness and was much excited by Mr Durrant's visit.  "I
am better," she continued; "I hope to be quite well by next week."

"So do I hope you will be quite well, for time is speeding very fast,
Harriet: the summer holidays go almost before we know they are with us.
Now I have many expeditions in my mind's eye--expeditions in which I
want you and Ralph to join.  This is Saturday night.  To-morrow is
Sunday.  To-morrow, I am going to leave home for a day or two, but on
Monday I shall be back again.  I hope by then to find you quite well and
enjoying yourself with the rest of your school-fellows.  Everything that
man can do will be done for your pleasure, and I trust I shall find my
little party without any invalids amongst them waiting to welcome me
back on Monday evening at the latest."

"And what is going to happen on Tuesday?" asked Harriet, whose eyes
began to sparkle now, for she had suddenly lost her fear of Mr Durrant.

"The weather is so fine at present," was his reply, "that I have
chartered a yacht and am going to take you all for a cruise.  What do
you say to that?  You are not likely to be sea-sick, are you?"

"Never was sea-sick in the whole course of my life," said Harriet,
dimpling all over her face now with anticipation.

"I thought I'd discovered something to please you.  The sea breezes will
put colour into those pale cheeks.  Ponies, donkeys, governess carts
will all be left behind, and for one long perfect week we shall coast
round the Isle of Wight, and other parts of this perfect country.  What
do you say?  I have already mentioned the matter to the others, and I
find that they are, without a single exception, good sailors."

"I will be well enough, whoever else isn't," said Harriet, stoutly.
"It'll be lovely, lovely.  You know I have spent all my early days at
the seaside."

"Have you?  Then of course you are accustomed to yachting."

"I am accustomed to going out in the fishing boats: I often did so at
Yarmouth: I used to make great friends with the sailors."

"Then that will be capital, my dear.  Now I am leaving early to-morrow.
You won't guess where I am going, will you?"

"How can I guess, Mr Durrant?"

"To no less a place than Robina's home."

"Robina's home," said Harriet.  She felt herself turning red, and one of
her hands which had been lying idle on her lap, clenched itself tightly.
"Why to Robina's home?" she asked.

"That is just it.  I have a little scheme in my head; why should not I
tell you?  I have told her--why should not you also be in the secret?"

"Oh, please, please tell me?" said Harriet.  "I love secrets," she
added.

"Most girls do.  Well, this is the state of things.  You know that my
first intention was to send Ralph back to Mrs Burton's school with you
and the other school-mothers.  He was to be primarily under Robina's
care, and the rest of you were of course to be good to him.  Dear, kind
Mrs Burton had consented to the arrangement, and everything was going
well, when, lo and behold!  I was obliged to change my plans."

"Oh!" said Harriet: "to change your plans--how? why?"

"I will tell you why, dear Harriet, and I am sure you will sympathise
with me.  I know you have a great regard for my little boy, and I
believe he returns your regard; therefore anything connected with his
future will be of interest to you.  Mrs Burton cannot receive Ralph at
her school as she at first promised to do.  She will herself give you
her reasons for this, but I need not trouble you about them at the
present moment.  Suffice it to say that Ralph cannot go back to
Abbeyfield, and therefore I have to make other arrangements for him."

"Yes," said Harriet, in a breathless sort of voice.  "Dear Ralph!  He is
such a sweet little boy.  Have you made your arrangements, Mr Durrant?"

"I am going to South Africa early in October," was his reply, "and
cannot take my dear little son with me: he must remain in England.  Now,
this house is quite to my liking.  It is large, and airy and well
drained and not far from the seaside.  I know a lady, a special friend
of mine, who will come to look after Ralph, and he can have the best
masters at Eastbourne and a daily tutor who will come out here to
instruct him.  But all these advantages are not sufficient.  He must
have a companion.  There is in my opinion no companion so suitable for
all that Ralph requires as Robina Starling; and I am going to see her
father to-morrow in order to make arrangements for her to remain with
him."

"And not go back to Abbeyfield?" said Harriet.

Her voice was low.  It was getting dusk too, and Mr Durrant could not
very well see her face.

"Robina would not go back to school?" she repeated.

"In that case, no; but she would lose nothing thereby; for I should make
it a personal matter, and would see that her education was thoroughly
finished at my expense.  She is a clever girl, and I can give her not
only the very best masters, to develop what talent she possesses, but
would eventually send her to Girton, where I understand she greatly
longs to go."  Harriet was quite silent.  "You approve, don't you?" said
Mr Durrant, scarcely knowing why he asked the question.

Harriet gave a little gasp.

"You are very, very good," she said: "you have done a great deal for the
girl that Ralph likes best.  Is the girl who is to stay with him while
you are away to be the girl he likes best, or the girl you like best?
Hitherto, it has been the girl he likes best.  Is that to be the case
still?"

"I hope so, indeed I trust that he will like Robina best."

"Because you do," said Harriet.

"Yes, Harriet," said Mr Durrant.  "I like her; she is honest, and
honourable.  She has never, to my knowledge, done an underhand thing: I
could not stand underhand ways in the companion who has to be so much in
the society of my little son.  I love honour before all things--honour
and truth: they are the pillars in which the whole character must be
raised to any sort of strength or perfection.  I believe Robina to be
both honourable and truthful."

"Yes," said Harriet: "you would not let her have the charge of Ralph if
she had not these qualities."

"Certainly not: but she has.  I will wish you good-night now.  I hope
you will be quite well on Monday evening when I return from my visit to
the Brown House."

Mr Durrant left the room, and Harriet lay back in her deep, easy chair,
lost in thought.  Once again she said to herself:

"That horrid girl is about to supplant me.  I wonder, oh, I wonder!"

She thought long and hard.

Book 2--CHAPTER EIGHT.

MR DURRANT VISITS BROWN HOUSE.

Mr Durrant arrived at the Brown House on Sunday afternoon.  It was a
day when few visitors were expected.  Mr Starling, having gone to
church in the morning, invariably spent the afternoon lying back in a
cosy corner of the green-house, smoking and reading a Sunday newspaper.
He was by no means an irreligious man, but he liked his ease on Sunday,
being under the supposition that he worked extremely hard during the
week days.  Mrs Starling spent Sunday afternoon lying down and
imagining herself a little worse than usual.  Miss Felicia sat in the
drawing-room, and Violet and Rose played on the lawn.

They were quite good little children and never made any unruly noise--
that is, except when Robina was at home.  Robina brought a disturbing
element into their young lives: but now that she was gone, and Bo-peep
was gone, the entire Starling family had settled down into their
ordinary habits.

The day was an intensely hot one, and when Mr Durrant appeared on the
scene, he stood still for a minute to wipe the moisture from his brow.

"Hallo, little 'un!" he said to Rose who, not at all shy, toddled up to
him.

"What's 'oo want, g'ate big man?" was her inquiry.

"I want your father, or your mother, or your aunt," was Malcolm
Durrant's reply.  "I want some one who can tell me something.  Now I
know you can't, because you're too small."

"There's my auntie in the drawing-room," said Violet at that moment.
Violet by no means wished Rose to monopolise the stranger.  "She'll say
`Don't' if you has mud on your boots: but you hasn't, they is quite
clean."

"Only dusty," said Rose.  "Let's dust 'em."

She knelt down as she spoke, and, taking the skirt of her little white
frock, began to remove the dust from the stranger's boots.

"Don't, Rose!  Rose, how dare you!" called a shrill voice from the
drawing-room, and Miss Felicia made her appearance through the open
window.  "How do you do, sir," she said.  "I must apologise for my
niece.  Really, Rose, your conduct is disgraceful.  Go away at once to
the nursery and get your frock changed; what a dreadful mess you are
in!"

"Poor little one!" said Malcolm Durrant.  "She but did what her sex did
before her for the Saviour of all the world.  Forgive her, madam."

He spoke in a very courteous tone, and, raising his hat, exhibited a
noble brow and features which at once puzzled Miss Felicia and caused
her heart to beat.  "Won't you come indoors, sir?" she said.

"And don't `don't' him, please auntie!" said Violet.

But Miss Felicia, agitated, she knew not why, did not even hear her.
She conducted the stranger into the little drawing-room.

"Sit down, sir," she said.  "And now, may I ask your name.  You have, of
course, come to see my brother-in-law on business.  I can call him in a
moment; but first, would you not like something to drink?"

"Very much, indeed," said the stranger.  "The fact is, I was never in
such a thirsty place in the whole course of my life.  A cup of tea or--
or lemonade or--or--water--in fact, anything except spirits."

"Dear sir, I am glad you are a teetotaller."

"Dear madam, I drink wine in moderation; but that is neither here nor
there.  I should not like it at the present moment.  You want to know my
name?  Malcolm Durrant.  Your niece--for surely you are Miss Felicia
Jennings--is at present honouring me by residing under my roof."

"So you are the great traveller," said Miss Felicia.  She felt herself
turning quite pale.  "Sir," she said, in a low reverent tone, "I honour
you.  It is a great, great privilege to have you under this roof.  I
will presently tell my brother-in-law and my sister of your arrival.  My
poor sister is a sad invalid; but to see you--I have not the slightest
doubt--she will make an effort to come downstairs."

"And I earnestly beg," said Durrant, "she will do nothing of the kind.
My business can be confided to you, madam.  You can acquaint your sister
and your brother-in-law with my desires, and they can either accept or
refuse.  But first of all--your hospitality was very much to the fore,
dear madam, a minute ago; and I am terribly thirsty."

Never did Miss Felicia Jennings in the whole course of her life feel
happier than now.  She tripped eagerly from the room, knocking against a
chair as she did so.  In a few minutes, she conveyed in her own fair
hands a large glass of cool lemonade to her guest.  He drank it off to
the last drop, put down the empty glass, and told Miss Felicia in the
most courteous language that she was a good Samaritan.

"Ah! my dear sir," was her reply.  "Who would not be a good Samaritan to
you?"

Durrant settled himself comfortably in his easy chair.

"You have a nice little place here," he said, "and a pretty out-look.
How many sweet and peaceful homes there are in England!--and those two
dear little maids to welcome me on the lawn.  I only wish that they
belonged to my party of young people who are at present enjoying life at
Sunshine Lodge."

"They are too young to leave home at present," said Miss Felicia;
"although I doubt not that being in your presence would do them a great
deal of good.  May I ask, my dear sir, how that precious little animal,
Bo-peep, is progressing?"

"Bo-peep is, I believe, in admirable health, and so is Robina.  You have
not asked yet after the welfare of your niece."

"Robina is a strong child: she never ails anything," replied Miss
Felicia.

"I am glad to be able to inform you that she remains in her normal,
health," answered Durrant.  "And now for the purpose of this visit.  I
have, as you know, a little son."

"I have heard of him; a child after your own heart--in fact, your
Benjamin."

"My little son; my only child," said Durrant.  "He is young--not yet
quite six years old.  I do not care to send children of such a tender
age to school.  I have many schemes for his future while I, alas! am
forced to part from him, and my final desire is to leave him in his
present home with a trustworthy lady whom I know, and who was my late
dear wife's relation--and with one young girl to be his constant
companion.  The girl I particularly wish to be with Ralph during my
absence is, madam, your niece, Robina Starling."

"Indeed!" said Miss Felicia.  It was on the tip of her tongue to say,
`Don't,' but the word did not come.

"You look surprised," said the traveller.

"Well," said Miss Felicia, "I know you admire Robina, or you would not
have given her that pony in such an extraordinary and munificent way.
But surely, she is a little--a little rough--if I may so express it."

"Hers is an upright character: she is upright, honest, truthful.  My boy
cares for her, and she cares for him: he cannot be under better
influence.  In short, if her father and mother consent, I want to make
them an offer with regard to their child, Robina."

"And what is that offer, Mr Durrant?"

"I want to take her from her present school, making arrangements with
Mrs Burton, so that Mr Starling may be put to no expense by her
transfer.  I want to give her all the possible advantages of a good
education.  These can partly be supplied by Mrs Temple, who is a very
polished and accomplished lady, and partly by masters and mistresses who
visit Eastbourne weekly from London.  Eventually, if she so desires it,
I would pay all her expenses at Girton or Newnham."

"It is a great chance for Robina: to be honest with you," continued Miss
Felicia, "we sent her from home because she was a little noisy, and
upset her poor dear mother, who is a sad invalid; but she is a good girl
on the whole."

"I find her an excellent girl: I like her very much."

"Well, sir," said Miss Felicia; "I thank you for what you have told me.
I will now go and acquaint my brother-in-law with the fact that he is
deeply honoured by your visit to our humble roof."

"Don't put it in that way, I beg of you, madam.  Try, please, and
remember that when I am at home I may be just an ordinary individual,
and in no sense wish to be lionised.  You will oblige me by bearing this
fact in mind."

"I will endeavour to do so," said Miss Felicia.  She left the room,
nodding many times to herself.

"Now he is under our roof--I have looked at him: I have heard his voice.
I wonder if he will write his name in my birthday book.  I should so
prize it.  I have not had one real celebrity to write in my book yet.
Malcolm Durrant!  How that great name would stand out amongst the
inferior signatures of the people in our small neighbourhood.  Oh, what
a chance for Robina!  Of course she will go.  And her expenses lifted
from her father's head.  He will grab at it.  I can't imagine myself
what such a great man as Malcolm Durrant finds in the child.  Still,
these great people are very odd now and then in their preferences.  I
must go to wake Edward.  Dear, dear! what a lot of sleep that man does
require!"

She burst open the green-house door.

"Edward; how you are snoring!  Do rouse yourself.  Who _do_ you think is
in the drawing-room?"

"Dear me, Felicia!  How can I tell," replied Edward Starling, rubbing
his eyes and looking at his sister-in-law in a dazed way.  "You know
perfectly well that I don't see visitors on Sunday.  It is my one day of
rest after a week of toil."

"A week of toil, indeed!  Why, you do nothing.  But rouse yourself now,
if you don't want your child to lose her golden chance in life.  There
is no less a person waiting for you in the drawing-room than the great
traveller, Malcolm Durrant!"

Now the fame of this very great person had penetrated even to Edward
Starling's ears, and he roused himself at the news, fixing his eyes in
some amazement on his sister-in-law.

"You must be dreaming," he said.  "It is quite impossible that Durrant
should come here."

"But he _has_ come here!  It is about Robina; he wants to settle her in
life, to do everything for her.  You had best go and clinch the bargain.
What he sees in her is more than I can tell.  If I had my way, and
could speak honestly to the poor dear man, I would say `Don't' fast
enough.  But there--these geniuses always take strange fancies--do let
me pull your collar down, Edward, and smooth that long lock of your
front hair.  It looks so queer half hanging down your back.  Now then,
you look better.  Go in: make yourself agreeable.  I will follow in a
few minutes just to see that you don't make a fool of yourself."

Book 2--CHAPTER NINE.

A DISCOVERY.

Malcolm Durrant might be a great traveller, and doubtless was; but all
the same, Mr Starling felt annoyed at being disturbed in his Sunday
nap.  Great people did not raise enthusiasm within his breast: he
believed in them, of course, and would have been quite interested to
hear some of the said Malcolm Durrant's adventures, had that gentleman
been kind enough to tell them.  But on a hot August afternoon, sleep was
more refreshing than anything else, and he was not in the best of
humours, when he entered the room where his guest was waiting for him.

Robina--Something was about to happen which would be to Robina's
advantage.  As a matter of fact, she was his favourite child.  He had a
much better time when she was at home than when she was at school.  She
suited him, as he himself expressed it, down to the ground.  She
"ragged" him, as she called it.  She was not at all afraid of him.  She
made him laugh.  She encouraged him to be more noisy at meals than Miss
Felicia thought was seemly in the house with a great invalid.  He had
yielded to Miss Felicia's representations that school was necessary for
Robina.  She had gone to school, and some one else had discovered her
virtues, for she had come back accompanied by a very valuable adjunct--
no less a thing than a live pony, a spirited animal which could gallop
and canter and trot and look all that was bright and intelligent.  This
animal, provided with a side-saddle and attendant groom whose wages were
paid by some one else was a great addition to the _menage_ at the Brown
House.  When Robina went away to Sunshine Lodge, accompanied by the pony
and the groom and the side-saddle, Edward Starling had missed his child
and her belongings a great deal.  He wondered what else was to be
expected of him, and nodded curtly now to the stranger as he entered the
room.

"Glad to see you, of course, sir," he said.  "How is Robina?"

"Very well, thank you," said Durrant.

"You are a great person, Mr Durrant," said Starling: "that is, you have
made a great name for yourself.  But be that as it may, I hold with the
words, `A man's a man for a' that.'  You are a man, sir, and I am
another, and Robina is my child.  Now, my sister-in-law, who between
ourselves is a right good sort but a bit of a goose, considers you not a
man, but an archangel, with a halo round you.  Now I see neither the
archangel nor the halo, but a person who at present is enjoying the
society of my pleasing young daughter.  I understand that you have come
to say something to me about her.  What, Mr Durrant, may that something
be?"

"A very outspoken something," replied Durrant.  "I am exceedingly glad,
Mr Starling, that you speak to me as you do.  I am not an archangel,
and I wear no halo.  I am an ordinary man.  Circumstances have placed
me, on several occasions, in positions of extreme danger where, if I had
not used an Englishman's pluck, I should have been worsted in the
battle.  I only did, sir, what you or any other man would have done
under the circumstances.  But now--to come to your child.  I want to
know if you will grant me a very great favour."

"Well, let us hear it, let us hear it," said Starling.  "But why should
we sit moped up in this fusty room?  Let us come out into the garden and
enjoy our pipes together: what do you say?"

"I shall be only too delighted," said Durrant.

The two men immediately left the drawing-room.  Miss Felicia, from a
sheltered corner of her sister's bedroom, watched them as they passed up
and down.

"He has, my dear sister," she remarked, "the most honourable carriage of
the head: it is but to look at that man to see what he is.  You, dear,
at least, won't throw any obstacle in the way of Robina's good luck: all
her life long it will be remembered in her favour that she was selected
by Malcolm Durrant to be the companion of his little boy during his own
absence."

"I am not likely to put an obstacle in the way," answered Mrs Starling,
"seeing that I have small voice in any matters.  Where you don't rule
me,--Felicia,--my husband does; and where my husband doesn't, the little
children do; and where the little children don't, Robina does; and where
Robina doesn't, the servants do.  I am ruled by everyone; I am the most
ruled out person on earth; I have not a bit of colour or opinion left.
When Bo-peep was here, I felt a little happier than I had done for some
time, because the animal seemed to like me without wanting in the very
least to get the upper hand of me.  But there, it cannot be helped."

"Don't talk any more in that silly vein," was Miss Felicia's remark.
"Each day after day as it goes, you make things quite disagreeable and
contrary.  I wanted to dress you nicely and bring you downstairs to tea,
so that you might have the privilege of conversing yourself with the
distinguished traveller; but really, what with hysterics in view, I
doubt if it would not be better to leave you upstairs."

"I am not going to have any hysterics," said poor Mrs Starling.  "I
have passed all that.  Perhaps Robina rules me rather less than the rest
of you; but I should like to see the man who wants to be a sort of
father to her.  I can't imagine why she should leave her own father; but
you all think otherwise."

"We all think otherwise," retorted Miss Felicia with a sort of snort;
"when golden chances do come in life, as a rule one isn't such a fool as
to throw them away.  But now, my dear Agnes, your purple silk dress with
the real lace collar will look exceedingly nice, and it will do you no
harm to get into it, even if you don't come downstairs."

While Mrs Starling was being dressed, the men were having their smoke
in the garden.  Durrant made his proposal quite plainly before Mr
Starling.

"I shall be absent for a year," he said.  "During that time, I want your
daughter to be my little son's companion; I, of course, paying all
expenses.  At the end of the year, she can, if you wish it, go back to
Mrs Burton, and continue her education in that most excellent school,
or she can still remain under my roof, looked after by my friend and
relation, Mrs Temple, and given the best possible instruction that
Eastbourne and the neighbourhood of London can supply.  When she is old
enough, I will myself send her to Newnham or Girton; or if she does not
care for that sort of education I will give her two or three years'
foreign travel.  It will be a great pleasure to me to do all this for
the girl who helps my little boy during a rather lonely period of his
life.  I offer these advantages to your daughter because, in the first
place, Ralph likes her better than any other girl he has ever seen, and
in the second place, I respect and love her on her own account.  During
the holidays she will of course spend the time with you, unless you wish
it otherwise."

"There is no use whatever in that," said Starling, interrupting Mr
Durrant's remarks in a somewhat gruff voice.  "Robina is a good girl,
and suits me uncommonly well, but she does not get on with the ladies
here.  Can't tell why, I am sure--too outspoken--doesn't suit Felicia
Jennings.  Felicia, between you and me, is somewhat of a bore--an
excellent creature, but too much `_don't_' about her.  Robina has got a
high spirit, and she can't stand it.  That is why she went to school.
Believe me, I didn't want her to go: I miss the girl uncommonly.  She
takes after me--a little rough, you know."

"I haven't found her rough," said Mr Durrant.

"Well, perhaps you would not call it so; but that is what the women here
say.  They have dinned it into my ear till at last I have got to believe
it.  Robina is so rough, they say, and so noisy, and so like a tomboy."

"I need not tell you, my dear sir, that I found the child spirited and
agreeable and an excellent companion.  What I admire about her so much
is her outspoken honesty and her truthfulness," said Mr Durrant.

"Well, yes; she is all that: I have never found her out in a lie, never,
although, to be sure, many a person might prevaricate a trifle to get
away from the `don'ts' of that old woman, Felicia.  I am agreeable to
your proposal, Mr Durrant: you can carry it out with my consent, and I
have no doubt my poor wife will also fall in with your views: but I
leave you, sir, to tackle the ladies yourself, for I am no match for
them.  Women are always slippery sort of creatures, hard to circumvent,
sir, and mighty knowing.  It is my belief they have twice the brains of
us men.  A woman can squeeze herself out of a corner where a man would
be simply trapped.  Now you know my opinion.  Robina's a good girl, and
she may as well stay at Sunshine Lodge for a year as at Mrs Burton's
for a year.  As to the holidays; if you would invite me to spend part of
the time with her at Sunshine Lodge, it would save a lot of ructions;
but I don't make that a _sine qua non_.  I am agreeable to any
arrangement that suits you and the ladies."

"Thank you; you are very kind," said Mr Durrant.

The conversation languished a little after that, although Mr Starling
tried to keep it lively by expatiating on Bo-peep's many excellent
points, and describing how truly his wife loved the little animal.
Eventually, a small, clear voice interrupted the conversation, and
Violet, dressed in her best and most starchy white frock, appeared on
the scene.  She announced in a prim little voice that tea was ready.

"You is to come in, and I may hold oo's hand," said Violet, giving hers
at once with the utmost confidence to the stranger.

The men immediately entered the house, accompanied by the little maid.
Rose was within, looking rather tearful, and seated close to her mother.

"I is not to 'peak, but I is 'onging to," was her first remark as she
fixed her cherubic eyes on the stranger's face.

"Don't, Rose!  Keep silent," said her aunt.  "Mr Durrant, may I present
you to my dear sister, Robina's mother."

Mr Durrant found a place close to Rose.  He presently transferred this
small person to his own knee, where she became radiantly happy, and then
he entered into conversation with Mrs Starling.  Mrs Starling, without
in the least intending it, managed to convey to him the fact that she
considered Robina a very rough, disobedient child, whom of course she
loved, but to whom discipline was sadly necessary.

Mrs Starling was a very sweet looking woman, notwithstanding her
illness, and Durrant became instantly much interested in her, and asked
her a good many questions with regard to Robina.  Finally, it was
arranged that the momentous question of the little girl's becoming
Malcolm Durrant's guest during his absence was to be deferred until the
week after that spent by the entire happy party of school-mothers on the
yacht; and Durrant promised to write to the Starlings on the subject at
the end of that period.

He arrived back at Sunshine Lodge early on Monday morning, and then
informed the different children that the weather report being excellent
they would start on the cruise early on the following day.  Nothing
could exceed the delight of all the little school-mothers, and amongst
them, no one was more cheerful than Harriet Lane.  She had quite
recovered her normal health, and was to all appearance in the highest of
spirits.

That evening, she and Jane had a short conversation together.

Jane, said Harriet; "I mean, if possible, to be the girl left in charge
of Ralph during his father's absence.  I know quite well all that has
happened with regard to Robina.  Mr Durrant wants Robina to stay with
Ralph here; and he went to see her people, because he told me so; but
all the same, matters won't be quite settled until Ralph himself
arranges the matter.  Now Ralph wishes for me, not Robina, and I think
Ralph's wishes will in the end carry the day."

Jane looked somewhat unhappy.  After a pause, she said:

"Nothing could be more delightful than our life here, and I am looking
forward to our time on board the yacht more than anything else in all
the world; but you manage somehow always to give an unpleasant tone to
things.  I thought after the fright you got with regard to Ralph when we
were at school that you would let him alone in the future; but you are
just as bad as ever."

"I am," said Harriet; "I am worse than ever.  I am not very happy at
home, and I have not the advantages that Robina has."

"Robina has one thing that you have not," said Jane, stoutly.  "She
really and truly loves little children.  Don't you remember how sweet
she was to Curly Pate?  She has a way about her that all little children
like: I suppose it is partly because she has got two little sisters of
her own.  Now, you do not care for children--not in your heart of
hearts."

"I don't care for the ordinary child, and I certainly began by not
loving Ralph at all," was Harriet's response; "but certainly I do care
for him now better than I ever did for any other child.  If I were left
here, I should be good to him, and he would be happy.  But that is not
the point.  I want the advantages that Mr Durrant offers--oh yes!
Robina can keep her pony; that wonderful Bo-peep can go back to the
Brown House and delight them all, and Robina can ride Bo-peep in the
holidays.  I don't grudge her her pony, but I do grudge her Ralph.  Why
I--oh, but you don't know about that."

She stopped abruptly.

"You may as well tell me," said Jane.  "I guessed--I think we all
guessed that something happened that day when you were so horribly cross
and would not come with us to the sea-shore.  You got poor little Ralph
into no end of mischief that day, or why should you both have been taken
ill that evening?"

"I will tell you, Jane," said Harriet, "if you will promise never, never
to let it out to anybody else."

There was a girl lying in a hammock close by.  That girl was Robina.
She had been fast asleep.  The day was hot, and she was tired from much
exercise, for Mr Durrant's parties never did let the grass grow under
their feet.  But she awoke now to find that Harriet and Jane were
standing a few feet away.  Her impulse was to say, "I am here."  The
next moment, she would have uttered the words, but, hearing her own name
spoken, arrested the speech that was on her lips.  She did not know why,
but a swift and horrible temptation came over her.  She bent a little
forward, and, unperceived by the two who were standing two or three feet
off, could hear every word that was spoken.

"You will never tell," began Harriet.

"No, no," said Jane, a trifle impatiently; "if I wanted to begin to tell
all the things you have confided in me, I'd have a pretty bad time of
it.  You know you have always plotted and planned against Robina.  Well,
what did you do against her that day?"

"The only thing I could do, and that was not much.  You know all about
the gipsies, and my following Ralph and bringing him home and my real
sorrow, and my giving Ralph up to Robina; and you know how Robina won
the pony?"

"Yes," said Jane; "I know that story, I am perfectly sick of it," she
added.

"Well, that story has somehow come to an end, but another story has
begun.  It is this: I will tell you what really did happen.  I was, oh!
in such a rage; and I wouldn't ride the horrid donkey, and you all went
off without me, only Ralph--he stayed."

"He is a dear little boy," said Jane.  "He did not want to stay, I can
tell you; but he could not stand the thought of your being left all
alone, so he asked his father if he might stay, and Mr Durrant said,
`Of course.'  Mr Durrant never makes much of people being
self-sacrificing; he seems to think it only right.  Well, anyhow, he
stayed."

"He did," said Harriet.  "In some ways he was rather a little nuisance.
He talked to me and I talked to him; and he--he--told me that he loved
Robina the best."

The girl in the hammock gave a quick catch in her breath, then a sigh of
relief, but too faint to reach the girls who were talking eagerly in the
shrubbery below.

"He said he loved her best; and you know that sort of little chap," said
Harriet, "he never, never could tell a lie--that is quite outside his
category."

"Oh quite, dear little man!" said Jane.

"Well, I wanted some water-lilies; and what do you think?  I tried to
pull some, but I couldn't, and he--he crept along a bough.  I could have
prevented him, but I didn't, for a thought got into my head."

"What was that?"

"I knew quite well that if he crept along that bough--that willow bough
that hangs over the round pond, that it wouldn't hold his weight, and
that he would fall in."

"You knew it!" said Jane, gasping, "and you let him do it?"

"I did.  I let him do it on purpose.  He didn't see me.  He wanted to
get the water-lilies for me, and he thought he would manage--oh, so
fine! and I watched behind a shrub."

"Oh, Harriet!"

"Well, my dear; you needn't go on like that.  The bough dipped lower and
lower, and Ralph, he is not a bit frightened--you know he never was, he
is as plucky as his father.  I did feel inclined to say, `oh, do go
back, Ralph--'"

"And you didn't say the words, Harriet?"

"No, no; you goose, I didn't; well, anyhow, he tumbled into the water
where it was pretty deep too; and he would have sunk, poor little man,
for there are such a lot of weeds about just there--only of course I was
close by, and I rushed down to the edge of the pond and flung myself in,
and swam out to him.  I saved him--oh, it was quite easy; he was not
even unconscious when I got him out of the water; only of course we were
both drenched to the skin."

"I don't understand," said Jane.  "It seemed a horrid mean thing to do,
and you speak as though it was something fine."

"Ralph thinks it awfully fine.  You see, he takes it in this way.  He
thinks he tried to get the lilies for me at the risk of his life."

"That's true enough," said Jane.

"And that I saved him at the risk of mine."

"Which is not a bit true," said Jane, "for you can swim like a duck
anywhere."

"Ah, but Ralph does not know that, and there is no one who will dare to
tell him.  We both got ill afterwards, and I was more ill than Ralph,
because I was longer in my dripping wet clothes; and now Ralph loves me
much, much better than Robina, for you see I saved his life."

"Oh!  I think you are a horrid girl!" said Jane.

"Do you? do you?  Well, perhaps you won't think me quite so horrid when
I get you invited here, say, for Christmas, and when we have a jolly,
jolly time, with that old Mr Durrant safe in Africa and Ralph just
obliged to put up with us.  I'll always be good to him, you may be sure
of that, but I shan't molly-coddle him: I'll look after number one, see
if I don't."

"All the same," said Jane, "Robina is the one who will be invited to
take care of Ralph, and you haven't a chance."

"I know better," said Harriet.  "I have my own plans.  You will have to
help me, for if you don't, I won't give you that five pounds that my
god-mother allows me on each of my birthdays."

"Five pounds!" said Jane, with a gasp.

"Yes; if I am allowed to stay as Ralph's companion, I will give you that
money this year.  Think what that will mean."

Jane was absolutely silent.  The girls went away from under the shadow
of the thick plantation, and walked like any other innocent little pair
in the sunshine.  Robina, after a long time, crept out of her hammock
and went to the house.  She had a dreadful feeling at her heart.  She
must be alone.  She reached her bedroom and locked herself in.

Book 2--CHAPTER TEN.

HARRIET PLEADS.

Half an hour afterwards, Robina went downstairs.  It was a perfect
summer's afternoon.  She felt she could not stand the house.  She went
out.  The great heat of the day was over.  The stars were beginning to
come out in the sky.  They could hardly be seen as yet for there was too
much light, but by-and-by they would shine brilliantly.

Robina raised her head to the sky, and wondered in a vague, girlish sort
of fashion what sort of life it was up there, and if God really
understood people, and if, in God's other worlds, things were right, not
wrong.  She felt depressed as she had never been depressed before.

Ralph was playing eagerly with the three Amberleys.  He looked a bonny,
happy little boy.  The rich colour had returned to his cheeks, he had
lost that slight look of delicacy which had characterised him for a
short time after his illness.

His illness!  Robina knew about it now.  She had guessed about it
before, but now, she knew.  Those wet clothes which the maid servant had
shown her, were explained.  The feverish chill which both Ralph and
Harriet had suffered from was also explained.  Everything was made clear
to Robina.  She felt herself almost shuddering.  Such wickedness! such
deceit! such a deeply laid plot to steal the affections of one little
boy seemed too horrible to poor Robina!  She felt she could scarcely go
on in her present position.

"Harriet is too clever for me," she thought.  "I ought to tell Mr
Durrant that I listened: I ought to explain to him what really happened.
Oh, what--what am I to do!  Ralph of course loves Harriet best now.  He
naturally thinks her conduct heroic.  He is the sort of boy to be
enraptured with a deed of that sort; and she did it all on purpose--on
purpose--and just to win his love from me.  Oh, how am I to bear it!
Why did I ever know Ralph?  Why was I ever sent to school?  I was happy
enough at home.  There were troubles, of course.  There was poor Aunt
Felicia, and there was mother--darling mother, who never did understand
me, much as I cared for her.  But all the same, compared to this life,
things were peaceful enough."

"Hullo, Robina!" said a voice at that moment.  "A penny for your
thoughts, my dear!"

Robina turned swiftly.  Her honest grey eyes flashed, then grew a little
dim.  Mr Durrant came up to her.

"Do you want to walk about with me for a little, my child, or would you
rather I left you by yourself?"

"I will walk with you, of course," said Robina--"that is, if you care to
be with me.  But," she added, "I am not a good companion to-night."

"And why not? is anything wrong?"

"There is something wrong, and I cannot tell it you.  Please don't ask
me."

"Of course I won't, my dear girl.  In a little company of this sort
there are sure to be small jars, but what I feel about your character is
this--that there is nothing mean about you.  You naturally have your
faults.  I could imagine, for instance, that you were exceedingly
high-spirited--too high-spirited at times.  I could also imagine that
you yourself needed a little discipline in life."

"I do," said Robina, suddenly.  "I need everything--every sort of
training.  You don't know, you can't realise, what a wild sort of heart
I have.  It seems to be too difficult at times to control.  I thought
when I was at school, and when I was given the charge of Ralph, and when
I won that dear pony, that I could never know unhappiness again; and
then when you asked me here, I felt sure that I could never know
unhappiness again."

"And you did know it once again?" said Mr Durrant, looking kindly and
yet with anxiety at the girl.

"Yes," she said, nodding her head, and tears filling her eyes as she
turned away.

"Listen to me, Robina.  There are some things about you that appeal to
me very forcibly.  I know you are not perfect.  I have been to your home
and have heard the opinion of your father and aunt, and of your mother
with regard to you.  They have given their true opinions.  Your father
admires those things in you which try your mother and aunt very much.
But I, my dear child, take you on my own valuation.  I see in you one
inestimable quality.  I do not believe under any circumstances you would
tell me a lie.  That, to me, is the unpardonable sin.  A girl who could
do anything deceitful would be an impossible companion for my little
Ralph.  I do not believe you would be that."

Robina was quite silent.  Her silence, and the extreme moodiness of her
appearance, rather surprised Mr Durrant.

"As a matter of fact," he said, after a moment's pause, "if I am to be
able to carry out my plan, which I am exceedingly desirous to do, I
shall have to choose between you and Harriet as a companion for my
little boy.  All my inclinations tend towards you, Robina; but, on the
other hand, I have been speaking to Ralph, and Ralph seems to wish me to
choose Harriet as his school-mother during the year of my absence.  Now
the wishes of so young a child cannot altogether guide me in this
matter, and I do not mean to come to a decision for at least a week on
the subject.  During that time, I shall watch you both--not obtrusively
in any way, but still with a keen observation, for a great deal depends
on the choice which I am forced to make.  I am, to tell you the truth, a
good deal puzzled at Ralph's preference for Harriet, and feel, without
being able to lay my hand on the mystery, that there is a mystery with
regard to it, and that Harriet has a power over him which I am not
permitted to know anything about."

Mr Durrant paused and looked at Robina.  She was quite silent.

"It would," said the traveller, after a long pause, "be a very, very
serious thing--in fact, it would be exceedingly wrong for me to entrust
my boy to the companionship of a girl who was not truthful, who had the
elements of deceit in her composition; and I do beseech of you, Robina,
not to consider yourself in the matter, but if you know anything against
Harriet, to confide that something to me."

"You must not ask me," said Robina, suddenly.  "I do not say I know
anything; she is my school companion.  She is clever; she is not
cleverer than I am, but she is undoubtedly clever.  You never can tell
why a person cares for another.  Ralph was fond of Harriet when he was
at school, then he turned to me because poor Harriet was tempted to take
him away to visit a friend of hers--but you know all about that story."

"Yes, I know all about it, and about poor Harriet's subsequent
repentance.  The incident has, therefore, quite faded from my mind, and
cannot influence me in my present decision in the very least."

"Of course not," said Robina.  "Well, I cannot tell you any more."

"I am much puzzled," said Mr Durrant, "and your manner to-night is the
reverse of reassuring."  He left Robina a few minutes afterwards, and
she walked by herself for a short time.  She was just going back to the
house when a hand was laid on her arm, and a girl looked eagerly into
her face.

"So you were talking to him?"

"What do you mean?" said Robina.  She almost flung Harriet's hand aside.

"I have discovered something," said Harriet.  Harriet's face was
absolutely white.  It looked curious and almost dreadful in the light
caused by the moon which was now rising.  "It was Jane who found out,"
she said.  "You were in the hammock all the time.  You heard us; you
listened; you are an eavesdropper.  Have you told Mr Durrant what I
said to Jane?"

"No," replied Robina, in a low tone.

"But you did listen?"

"I did: I was in the hammock.  How did you find out?"

"We found your handkerchief on the ground when we were passing a few
moments afterwards; and you left your book behind you.  Your book was in
the hammock; your handkerchief on the ground; you dare not deny it; you
heard every word."

"I heard every word," said Robina.

"Then what do you mean to do?" said Harriet.

"Nothing," replied Robina.

"Nothing?" said Harriet.  "That is so like you.  You mean to give up
your golden chance?"

Robina folded her hands.  She stood and faced Harriet.

"If I can keep straight, I will," she said--"if by any means it is
possible for me to keep straight in the company of a girl like you, I
will do so.  I believe, hard as it may seem, that that would be better
for me in the long run even than spending a whole year with Ralph."

"Do you indeed think so?" said Harriet.  She spoke eagerly.  "In that
case, Robina, you can help me."

"No," said Robina, starting back.

"Don't be silly," said Harriet.  "Come down this path, no one will hear
us; we must talk.  On board the yacht, there will be so little
opportunity, but here we are alone and together.  The choice lies
between you and me.  Now, you think you want all that Mr Durrant is
about to offer, but, compared to me, you don't want it at all.  My home,
compared to yours, is, oh! so rough; and my people are oh! so poor!  You
don't know, perhaps, that I am supported at Mrs Burton's school by an
aunt who grudges every penny of the money she spends on me.  To be
educated by a man like that, to be able to live here until I am quite
grown-up--oh, it would make such a difference!  You don't want these
advantages as badly as I want them.  Give up your chance, you have but
to help me with Ralph.  He loves me better than you now; you have but to
say a few words to Mr Durrant, and the deed is done."

"And what words are those?" said Robina.

"Tell him what you think about me."

"What I think?" said Robina.

"Yes, yes, yes!  Don't you understand?  You haven't said anything yet--I
mean, you haven't betrayed me?"

"I haven't."

"Well, his great idea is that Ralph should be under the care of a
truthful girl.  Make out to him that I am the most truthful girl, the
most honourable, the most upright in all the world."

"Sell my soul, in fact?" said Robina.  She turned and faced her
companion.  "O Harriet!  How I despise you!  I tell you what I will do.
I will give up this whole thing.  I will tell Mr Durrant that I won't
be Ralph's companion; that I prefer to go back to Mrs Burton's school,
and to take my chance there; that I can have nothing further to do with
Ralph, that I can tell him what I know about you, and he can choose Rose
Amberley, or Vivian, or Patience Chetwold, or one of the other girls as
Ralph's school-mother.  When I put you out of court, I shall put myself
out of court.  Oh, yes; that is what I will do.  You are just dreadful,
Harriet, dreadful."

"You won't dare to do such a thing," said Harriet.  "You must not; oh, I
beseech of you!"  Harriet's whole tone altered.  "Robina, I was only
joking.  Oh, please, please, please don't betray me.  Of course, I will
do nothing, only don't betray me.  Let us have our chance, let us both
be above-board: probably Mr Durrant and Ralph will choose you, and if
they do, I will promise not to say a word."

"But you will have nothing to say," replied Robina, in some
astonishment.

"That is true; but oh! do nothing, nothing until the week is up!"

"You distract me," said Robina.  "I want to go to him now--at once.  He
thinks me truthful; perhaps I am; I have been up to the present.  Now it
seems that, knowing what I know--knowing that you did that thing with
regard to the pond--"

"Oh, hush!" said Harriet.

"--That I ought to tell him.  It lies on my conscience: I am most
miserable!"

"Well, at least promise that you will say nothing until we have been on
board the yacht and the time there is over."

Harriet argued.  Robina pleaded; but in spite of herself, the girl who
was quite straight, who had no crooked thoughts, whose one desire was to
do to others as she would be done by, was no match for the girl who was
deceitful and intensely selfish.  In the end, Robina was forced by her
companion to give the promise that she would say nothing until the week
was up.

Book 2--CHAPTER ELEVEN.

ON BOARD THE "SEA-GULL."

The next day dawned gloriously, and soon after ten o'clock the entire
party were on board the pretty yacht which was known by the name of the
"Sea-Gull."  She had been hired by Mr Durrant for the occasion, and was
as charming a sea home as any girls could live in.  The eight girls who
now took possession of the pretty little cabins and who ran up and down
the "companion" stairs and walked on the deck, and disported themselves
so happily with the sea breezes blowing on their cheeks, and the white
sails of the yacht fluttering in the breeze had never known a more
enjoyable time than that first day on board the "Sea-Gull."

The "Sea-Gull," like a large white bird, skimmed lightly over the water.
The girls were all excellent sailors.  The sky was cloudless.  Mr
Durrant seemed absolutely to have recovered his serene good humour.
Ralph was in the highest spirits, and even the school-mothers were so
absorbed in their new surroundings that they had no time for trouble or
care.

It was after dinner, on the first evening of their sojourn on board the
"Sea-Gull" that Mr Durrant, rising from his place at the head of the
table, spoke to his little party.

"Now, my children," he said, "we have entered on a week which I hope
will remain long in the memories of each and all of you--a week which it
will be my endeavour to make one of pure and perfect happiness.  There
is no time like youth for the enjoyment of such.  As we get older, we
cannot quite get away from our cares, however hard we try to do so; but
when we are young, we are meant to be like the young birds and the young
lambs and the young puppy dogs and the young kittens--all gaiety and
sunshine, and lightness of heart.  I have on board this yacht with me, a
crew and an excellent sea-worthy captain and a first mate and all the
rest, and I also have nine young people who none of them exceed twelve
years of age.  This expedition is entirely carried out for the sake of
one little boy and his eight school-mothers, and I trust, therefore, we
shall have a very jolly time.

"On the night of our return to Sunshine Lodge, I shall have a very
important decision to announce, but in the meantime, my children, let us
forget all about it; let us be happy while we may; let us banish dull
care; let us be, from the oldest to the youngest, each a truly happy
child at heart."

"Oh, yes," said Robina's voice.

The others looked round rather startled when she spoke.  She was wearing
a brown holland frock, which Aunt Felicia had made for her, and which
was not exactly becoming, but nothing could take from the bonny
expression of her open face, and her very words brought comfort to Mr
Durrant's heart.

"That girl is the girl for me," he said to himself.  "Who would compare
her to Harriet Lane?"  But then he noticed--and he gave a quick sigh--
that Ralph's little hand was locked in Harriet's, and that he was
standing close to the tall, thin girl.

Soon afterwards, the entire party went on deck, and Ralph, after sitting
up for some time, was obliged to go down to the pretty cabin which he
shared with his father.

"Oh--I am so sleepy!" he said.  "I shan't sleep without rocking, for
I'll be rocked all night by the sea, won't I, father?"

"Yes, my son," replied his father; "and may you sleep without dreams."

He kissed the little brown face as he spoke.  The brown eyes looked into
the browner eyes of the man, and the man felt that in all the wide world
there was no one so precious to him as that little child who was not yet
six years of age.

"If only I could give up my life of adventure for his sake!  Dare I
leave him?" thought Mr Durrant.  "I could, with Robina," was his next
thought.

He looked across at the group of girls, who, on different deck-chairs,
were gently swaying to the pleasant rhythmic motion of the yacht.  There
were certainly prettier girls on board, but there was no one, to Mr
Durrant's mind, so altogether satisfactory as Robina.  How was it that
even at this juncture, Ralph scarcely kissed Robina at all, but clasped
his arms round Harriet's neck, and whispered something in her ear? and
why did Harriet return his kiss with a sort of eager passion and then
turn and talk to Jane in an undertone?  Mr Durrant felt he did not like
it.  He was restless, in spite of himself, and though he had vowed that
dull Care should not enter the "Sea-Gull," and that during the happy
week on board no _contretemps_ should take place, he was all the time
thinking, first of Harriet, and then again of Robina, and then again of
Harriet.

The first two days on board passed without any sort of adventure.  The
party landed and saw almost all the places of interest on the Isle of
Wight, and generally entered some little harbour to spend the night.
The weather continued to be most propitious.  There was no one either
sea-sick or sorry; nevertheless, Mr Durrant felt more and more as
though that choice which he was about to make were becoming one of
greater anxiety each moment.

On the third day of the little party's residence on board the
"Sea-Gull," Ralph, who woke very early, left his own berth and climbed
into his father's.

"Is you waking up, father?" he said.  "Is you going to talk to your
little brown boy?"

"Of course I am, Ralph," answered Durrant, opening one sleepy eye, and
glancing comically at Ralph as he perched himself on one side of the
bed.

Ralph sat very still for a minute: then he said, in a very low,
determined voice:

"I promised I'd say it: so I am going to."

"You dear little man--you promised you'd say it:--what do you mean by
that?"

"Well," said Ralph, "it is this.  I want you to choose Harriet to live
with me when you is going to South Africa.  I don't want Robina: I like
her next best to Harriet, but I don't like her as well."

"Now this is a very serious matter, Ralph," said his father, changing
his tone and becoming wide awake and alert at the moment, and taking his
little boy's hand.  "You know, my dear son, that I shall be absent from
home for several months."

"I know," said Ralph.

"You will have Mrs Temple to look after you."

"I know," said Ralph again.

"And being a manly boy, you won't fret."

"'Course not," said Ralph.  Whatever feeling there was in his heart, he
would not let it come to the surface.  "I is your own boy," he said,
after a pause.  "You didn't fret ever, did you?"

"Not to show it," replied Mr Durrant, after a minute's pause.

"Sank 'oo," said Ralph.  "I understand," he repeated.

"Well, my dear boy, that part is all right: but now, to be frank with
you: I prefer Robina."

"And I like Harriet," said Ralph.

"Do you think, Ralph, that a little boy so young as you are is the best
judge of who ought really to be his companion?"

"I don't understand," said Ralph then.  "I like Harriet best, 'cause
she's so--"

"Ah, yes?" said Mr Durrant, in an encouraging voice.  "Give me your
reasons, my son; I shall listen with the greatest possible attention."

"'Cause she is so splendid--and--and brave," said Ralph, "and--and--
noble--"

"Is she?" said Mr Durrant.  "Can you prove that?"

"Does you want me to prove it, father?"

"Yes," said Mr Durrant then.  "If Harriet is really the bravest girl of
all your school-mothers, and the noblest, then--she shall stay with you
as your school-mother.  But it has got to be proved to me."

"And if I can prove it," said Ralph, "you will really, really let her
stay with me as my very own school-mother?"

"Yes, Ralph."

"Sankoo so much," said Ralph.  His little face looked very much excited
and the colour flushed into his cheeks.

"Now then, that is settled," said Mr Durrant.  "You have got to prove
the thing, and I have got to see that I believe all about it.  We won't
worry any more for the present, for the decision is not to be come to
until we return to Sunshine Lodge.  Go back to your own berth, Ralph.
Turn round and have another hour's sleep, for it is too early for anyone
to be up."  Ralph, quite satisfied with what he had done, immediately
obeyed his father.  He was just like a little sailor, and instant
obedience was his watch-word.  But while a small brown boy slept, the
big brown man lay awake, consumed with anxious thought.

"I wish I had never given my sanction to this plan; there is something
behind the scenes.  Harriet brave; Harriet noble?  I never yet was
mistaken in a face," was his thought.  "Well, little Ralph, you have to
prove it to my satisfaction, that is one comfort."  That day the little
party landed at Lymington and went for a time into the New Forest under
the shade of the "Immemorial Elms."  Ralph and Harriet had time to be
alone for a short period.  It was rather difficult now for the boy and
the girl to be unobserved on these occasions.  It seemed to Harriet that
the eyes of all the school-mothers watched them, that Robina, in
particular, followed them about with those grey eyes of hers.

Robina was true to her word.  She tried to enjoy herself and was great
friends with all her companions with the exception of Jane, whom she
left to Harriet entirely, and with the exception of Ralph, whom, from a
motive which she could not define, she left more or less to himself.
This very fact distressed Mr Durrant not a little.  Now, Robina and the
Amberley girls were all walking under the trees, chatting and talking,
and Harriet and Ralph found themselves alone.

"I has done it," said Ralph.  "I spoke to father and telled him that I
wished him to choose you."

"Oh, you did, did you?" said Harriet.  She pulled Ralph's little hand
through her arm.  "You will never be sorry for that, I can tell you,
Ralph.  I mean to give you a beautiful time when I am your
school-mother."

"Oh, yes," said Ralph; "but 'tisn't 'cause of the beautiful time that
you're to be my school-mother, is it, Harriet?"

Harriet looked puzzled.

"I mean," said Ralph, "that I is going to be a big boy.  Next birthday
I'll be six, then seven, then eight--I'll be growed up in no time.  When
a person is growed up, then a person hasn't to think only just of nice
things.  I telled father that I wanted you to be my school-mother, to
stay with me all the time, 'cause you're so brave and so noble."

"You told him that?" said Harriet, with a short laugh: "nothing more, I
hope?"

"No, nothing more, 'cause you wouldn't let me.  But, Harriet," he said,
"father did--"

"What, dear?"

"That I had got to prove to him that you was brave, and was noble--he
likes people who are that; and his eyes flashed.  Don't you like
father's eyes when they grow all of a sudden so very bright?  Well, they
growed like that when I said you was brave, and noble; only he said you
must prove it."

"Oh! you did put your foot into things," said Harriet.  "How on earth am
I to prove it."

"Why, do something brave and noble," said Ralph.  "I thought I'd tell
you, 'cause father said he must know his own self, and then he'll
decide.  He is going to decide as soon as ever we get back to Sunshine
Lodge--oh! and there he is calling me!  Now I must run to him.  Coming,
father, coming--this instant-minute!" and Ralph lost his hold of
Harriet's hand and flew off to meet his parent.

"Does you want me to swarm up to the top of that tall tree, father?  I
can, you know: I isn't a bit frighted," said Ralph.

Mr Durrant stood and smiled.

"You mustn't go too far," he said, "I don't want you to fall and hurt
yourself."

"No," said Ralph, "that wouldn't be right, would it?  Special 'cause
there's no water underneath.  If I was to run up this tree, and run
along that bough that bends over so, and it cracked, same as willow
bough cracked, I--"

Then he stopped and turned very red.  Durrant was standing very upright
and apparently not listening.  Ralph felt a choking sensation in his
throat.  How very nearly he had betrayed himself!

"Was you listening, father?" he said, after a pause; and he came up and
pulled the brown man by the sleeve.

"To what, my boy?"

"To a sort of nonsense I was talking."

Instantly Mr Durrant's face grew very stern.

"You were not talking nonsense, Ralph," he said.  "You were telling
something that happened: but I don't want to hear the rest.  What I have
heard doesn't matter, for a half story is no story all: but it is not
exactly true to call what really happened nonsense, and I don't like
those words from the lips of my little son.  Now go up your tree; climb
along any branch you like: I am below watching you."

"Yes, yes," said the boy, the weight of the words he had inadvertently
used slipping from his mind.  "Father's below, waiting for me," he
repeated.

He climbed the tall elm tree, springing from branch to branch with the
alertness of a little squirrel, and presently came down again, radiant
and triumphant.

"Pluckily done, Ralph!" said his father, and he took the boy's hand and
continued to walk with him through the Forest.

"Father," said Ralph, after a pause, "I have been telling Harriet that
you must have it proved that she is both brave and noble."

"That is right, my boy.  Now let us talk of something else.  There'll be
a bit of a breeze to-night: we must run the `Sea-Gull' into Yarmouth
Harbour.  We must run in before long in order that we may be snug and in
port before we have any dirty weather."  If there was one girl who was
not perfectly happy during this week of sunshine, it was Jane Bush.
Poor Jane was completely under Harriet's influence.  If Harriet was
poor, Jane was a little poorer.  Mrs Burton was one of those good
Christian women who took girls, whose parents were poor, on special
terms; both Harriet and Jane were girls of this sort.  She had long ago
made up her mind that those girls who could not afford to pay for a good
education should nevertheless, if there was a vacancy at Abbeyfield,
receive all the advantages of the best education she could offer.

Harriet was the daughter of an old friend, and Jane Bush was the child
of a man who had once done her a service.  Both these girls were
received at Abbeyfield on very special terms, and Jane, in particular,
was at the school almost free of any expense.  Mrs Burton was not
especially fond of Jane, but she remembered the time when Jane's father
had been kind to her in her need, and she was determined to give the
girl all the advantages of a good education; no one knew this; it was
never whispered in the school that Harriet and Jane were taken on very
different terms from their companions.  Their rooms were just as
comfortable, their education just as complete: but the girls themselves
knew, and the thought rankled sorely in each young breast.

Harriet had an aunt, it is true, who paid something for her schooling,
but Jane Bush's father paid practically nothing at all.  He was a very
poor artist who could scarcely make two ends meet.  Jane's mother was
dead, and the girl would have been absolutely neglected but for Mrs
Burton's great kindness to her.

Jane Bush had a little brother and sister who were cared for, after a
fashion, by an aunt, and, with the exception of her school-companions,
they were the only people she loved in the world.

Now, the thought of that five pounds, which was to be hers if Harriet
was lucky enough to be selected as school-mother to Ralph, visited her
heart again and again.  What wonders could she not achieve with so large
a sum?  Why, five pounds!  Five pounds meant one hundred shillings, and
one hundred shillings meant two hundred sixpences and four hundred
threepences! and as to the pennies which that mighty sum represented--
Jane felt that she was not old enough yet even to begin to calculate the
magnitude of the amount!  Yes, if she helped Harriet--she, who had
always helped her more or less, would be the happy possessor of that
sum.  What could she not do for little Bobbie and small, round,
black-eyed Miriam if she had five pounds of her own?  She remembered too
well the sordid condition of these poor little ones; how many things
they wanted; how shabby were their little wardrobes; how thin their
winter frocks; how bitterly Miriam complained of the cold, and how
Bobbie cried when his chilblains hurt him!

While the others were singing and laughing and making merry on board the
"Sea-Gull," and Jane's very round cheeks got rounder and browner and her
eyes blacker and more staring, and people said to themselves, "What a
commonplace, careless sort of little girl that is and what an
uninteresting face she has," they little guessed that Jane's heart was
full of care, that she was thinking of Bobbie and Miriam and the things
that might be done for their happiness if only she was the possessor of
five pounds.

She was completely under Harriet's spell, and never more so than at the
present moment when Harriet dangled before her so tempting a bait.  Now
Harriet, exceedingly annoyed at what Ralph had communicated, sought her
chosen friend.

"Well, Jane," she said, "this is Friday.  We shall be back at Sunshine
Lodge on Tuesday next, and then the great decision has to be made.  Have
you thought of anything?"

"Have I thought of anything?" said Jane, almost crossly.  "I am always
thinking of things, Harriet, you know very well."

"But if you don't think of something good and clever, you may as well
not think at all," said Harriet.  "Now, do you know that I don't like my
present position at all.  There's that horrid Robina--she is exactly the
sort of girl who, to spoil my chances, would equally spoil her own.  She
said as much, and if we don't manage to circumvent her between now and
Tuesday, all will be up."

"I would do anything in all the world to help you, as you know,
Harriet," said Jane; "but please tell me what circumvent means?"

"Why, get the better of her, of course, you goose!  You really are too
silly," said Harriet.  "Well, how are we to get the better of her?  I
want you to tell me."

"I wish I could!"

"Oh, you don't think at all!" said Harriet in a fretful tone.  "If,
instead of romping and joking and laughing all day with that silly
Vivian or Rose or any of the other girls, you were to put on your
considering cap, you would soon find a way to earn your five pounds."

"I want it most dreadfully," said Jane: "but please tell me how I am to
earn it, Harriet.  What is it you want me to do?"

"Well, I tell you what I want you to do.  I want you to do; two things.
To prove in some sort of fashion to Mr Durrant that Robina is
deceitful--yes, that is it, deceitful; he thinks more of truth than of
anything under the sun--and that I am exceedingly brave, and exceedingly
noble.  I gave Ralph the hint to tell his father that I was both brave
and noble--you know all about that as far as is connected with the pond.
Well, what do you think Mr Durrant has said?  He says that if Ralph
can prove his words, he will elect me as the school-mother.  The deed
will be done.  There will be no getting out of it; but it has got to be
proved--how?  I leave you, Jane, to find out a way."

"Oh, it isn't so easy," said Poor Jane.

"You want your five pounds, don't you?" said Harriet, with a sneer.

"Yes, I want it awfully.  I heard from Bobbie and Miriam this morning
and--"

"I don't want to hear about those tiresome children.  Now let us come to
the boat; they are calling us: don't you hear them?"

Book 2--CHAPTER TWELVE.

EDGED TOOLS.

Mr Durrant's prophecies with regard to the weather turned out true.
The "Sea-Gull" made with some difficulty into Yarmouth harbour, where it
remained snugly ensconced for the night.  But even there, although
securely at anchor, it tossed about a good deal, and none of the
children slept particularly well.

Towards morning, however, the storm abated: the wind went down almost as
suddenly as it rose, and Mr Durrant determined to take the yacht as far
as Totland Bay, and to give the children a run on the shore.  They were
all pleased with this decision, and when they landed on the pier, were
much delighted to find themselves again on _terra firma_.

The day was a very hot one; and, except for the swell after the storm,
all traces of the tempest of the preceding night had vanished.  The
entire party went into the hotel for lunch, and afterwards took a long
walk on the beach in the direction of the far-famed Needles.

It was so fine and warm that the girls begged to be allowed to bathe.
There was a sheltered cove about a mile beyond Totland Bay where they
could go into the water; and all the party, provided with their bathing
things, started on their expedition.

Harriet and Jane walked on a little in front of the others: Robina, on
this occasion, found herself with the Amberley girls: Mr Durrant,
Patience and Frederica Chetwold and Ralph brought up the rear.  Jane
turned now and spoke eagerly to Harriet.

"I have thought of something," she said.

"Well, what is it?" asked Harriet.

"We are all going to bathe, aren't we?"

"I suppose so," said Harriet: "not that I much care for the look of the
water," she added.  "There is an awful swell, and I remember my father
once telling me that there were strong currents all round this part of
the coast.  Only very good swimmers ought to go out; but of course we
are safe enough, those of us who choose to stay in our depths."

"Yes,"--said Jane--"those of us who choose; but you won't, you know--it
will be your chance."

"My chance? of what?" asked Harriet.

"Why, of proving what you want to prove to Mr Durrant."

Harriet turned and looked full at her companion.  It is true she was a
good swimmer, and she was not a coward; but she knew enough about the
water to understand that even the best swimmer cannot cope against a sea
which is still perturbed by a recent storm.  She said, after a pause:

"I always knew you were clever enough, Jane, when you chose to put your
brains in soak.  Now, what is your thought?  Out with it."

"Well," said Jane; "it is this way.  They're all going to bathe--all of
them--Ralph and Mr Durrant, and all the girls.  You coax Ralph to get a
little out of his depth, and then you save him.  Why, it's done as easy
as possible.  Why, Mr Durrant, he'll feel then just as Ralph feels for
you--that there's nothing in all the world that he won't do for you, and
Robina won't be in it at all."

Harriet was so astonished at these words, that she stood stock-still and
turned and stared at her companion.

"But if Mr Durrant is in the water himself, he will save Ralph.
Besides, he won't allow him to go out of his depth; he will just keep
him to himself.  Why, Ralph is the apple of his eye, you goose!"

"Yes," said Jane; "but suppose he isn't with him."

"Now what are you talking about?"

"If something was to happen to make him go back and just let the rest of
us wait in the cove for him and oh!  I know that I am a very bad girl;
but I think that if you were to make up a message of some sort he might
go back to the yacht, and while he is away, we could go into the water,
and then you will do that fine, splendid thing and--and--all will be
right."

"Yes," said Harriet; "yes."  She looked at the sea.  Each moment the
waves seemed to be going down; there were no "white horses" anywhere.
The whole sea as far as the distant horizon was a blue expanse.  There
was not much, if any, danger, and people said it was so safe to bathe in
the cove, which they were approaching.  "But what can we do to make Mr
Durrant go back?" said Harriet.

"I have thought of that too," said Jane, her colour changing.  "You
remember the letter you got about your father?"

"The letter that reached me this morning?"

"Yes, you said he was ill."

"Oh, dad is often ill," said Harriet; "I mean that he is fanciful."

"Well," said Jane; "let's pretend for the time at least that he is not
fanciful, and that you are nervous about him, and that you want to hear,
and that you think there may be a telegram waiting for you on board the
`Sea-Gull.'  Mr Durrant is so kind that he would think nothing of going
back to find out, and I would speak to him my own self if you would let
me.  Do let me, please do, Harriet!"

"You want your five pounds," said Harriet.  "It's a jolly mean way to
earn it.  But still, I suppose, we are both as mean as we can be and the
idea in itself may succeed.  I have asked you to manage this thing for
me, Janie, it is only fair, as you get such a lot of money by it, so do
your best, now; I leave it in your hands."

The moment Harriet said this, Jane rushed away from her.  She joined Mr
Durrant, and they talked together for some minutes with great apparent
earnestness.  Meanwhile, Ralph rushed up to Harriet.

"Isn't the day lovely?" he said; "won't it be nice when we are bobbing
up and down in the water?  I'll show you how well I can swim, Harriet.
I can swim, you know, but I can float better than I can swim."

"You must be careful not to go out of your depth," said Harriet.  "Of
course you can swim, although you are such a little boy, and when you
are tired, your father will let you ride on his back.  What fun that
will be!  Your father is so strong, and big."

"Yes, isn't he just splendid?" said Ralph.

At that moment, Jane came back.

"Mr Durrant has gone to the yacht," she whispered to Harriet, "but he
doesn't wish any of us to bathe until he returns."

Ralph, who was quite uninterested in Jane's whispered communication now
ran down to the edge of the water and began to amuse himself shying
pebbles into the sea.

"Of course there will be no telegram," said Harriet to Jane.  "Father's
in all probability as well as usual, still, that was a good idea of
yours, and it isn't likely to be found out."

"I don't think it is likely," said Jane.  "I am awfully wicked," she
continued, "and it is you, Harriet, who have made me so.  I told Mr
Durrant that you were almost certain a telegram would come.  It was a
lie, of course, but I have done it for Bobbie's sake, and Miriam's sake,
and now you have got to earn my five pounds for me; now is your chance."

"But you have spoilt it with that message," said Harriet.  "Mr Durrant
said we were none of us to bathe until he came back."

"You must bathe," said Jane.  "I am going to pretend that I forgot all
about the message.  You must act as though you never got it."

"Then you, Jane, will be punished."

"I can only be in disgrace," said Jane; "and I don't mind if I get my
money.  In any case, I shan't bathe; I am going to walk about very
slowly along the beach, and will wait for you near the yacht.  If any of
the sailors see me, they will take me on board, and I can wait for you
there.  I shall be much too miserable to look on.  Don't let Ralph go
far into the sea--just a wee, wee bit out of his depth: then catch him
very quickly; only be sure you let Robina and the other girls see you do
it.  Things will be all right for us both now, won't they?"

"Yes," said Harriet, in an excited tone.  She too felt that her chance
had come.  Her conscience was dulled to sleep.  Not for worlds would she
awaken it.

Jane immediately began to walk back to Totland Bay, and Harriet turned
to the other girls who had come up now to join her.

"When,"--said Ralph, who was softly jumping up and down and holding
Vivian's hand--"when is we all going into the nice, cool, lovely blue
water?"

"But where can Mr Durrant be?" said Robina.

"He said that he would come with us because the current would certainly
be a little strong to-day.  Perhaps we had better not bathe."

"Oh, of course those who are frightened need not bathe," said Harriet:
"but I am going into the water for one."

"But where is father? where is my father?" asked Ralph.

"He has gone," said Harriet, "out of great kindness to me to find out if
a telegram has come on board the `Sea-Gull' to tell me about my own
father, who isn't well.  Isn't it good of him?"

"Just like father," said Ralph.  "And is your father very, very bad,
Harriet?"

"Oh, I hope he is much better now," said Harriet.  "But he sometimes
does get ill, and then of course I am anxious."

"'Course you are, poor Harriet," said Ralph, taking her hand and
stroking it softly.

"Well, girls," said Harriet, looking at the others; "who's going to
bathe, and who isn't?"

Two or three elected to get into their bathing things, and go into the
water.  The little cove was absolutely sheltered.  The water was like
glass.  Some of the children were accustomed to sea-bathing, some were
not.  Harriet began eagerly to question.

"Who can swim?" she asked.

"I can," said Frederica.

"And I a little bit," said Rose Amberley.

"And I can't," said Robina; "but all the same, I am going to bathe if
the rest of you do."

"And who said you were not to bathe?" asked Harriet.  "It will do you
good, I think, for you look so hot and dusty."

"Yes, I believe it would do me a lot of good," said Robina, and as she
spoke she took off her hat and twisting up her thick hair, knotted it
firmly at the back of her head.

The girls then packed their bathing things, and Robina, Harriet and the
others prepared to get into the water.  Little Ralph, looking prettier
than he had ever done before, in a little tight-fitting brown bathing
suit, skipped about on the edge of the waves.

"Oh! won't it be jolly!" he cried; "won't it be jolly in the water!
Come, Harriet."

On his lips the words were almost bubbling, "You can swim splendid," but
he kept them back.

"Let me hold your hand, Ralph," said Robina.  "We mustn't go far because
your father is not with us, and your father wouldn't like it."

"Nonsense!" said Harriet, who was standing up to her knees in the water,
which was quite warm, and as still as possible.  "Those who are
cowards," she said, "need not come on; but from the little I know of Mr
Durrant, I should say that of all things in the world, he would wish
Ralph to prove himself a brave boy.  Come along with me, Ralph; hold my
hand; poor silly Robina can't swim, you know."

"Can't you, Robina?  Oh, I forgot," said Ralph.  He looked pityingly at
her.

"I can swim quite a little bit," he said.  "Father taught me; only I
can't keep up very long, but leastways I can float.  Can't you even
float, Robina?  You has to turn on your back--so."

As Ralph spoke, he suited the action to the words, lying perfectly still
on his back, his head slightly lower than his chest.  Harriet laughed;
put her hand under the said little head, and forced him on to his feet
again.

"Why, you are a splendid boy," she said.  "You and I will see together
what we can do.  The water is quite warm.  Now, Ralph, you know the
stroke.  Come along; I will help you.  All of you who can swim, come
with me, won't you.  I thought before I got into the water that the
current might be a little strong, but I see I am mistaken.  We can
easily go as far as the entrance to the cove.  What fun it will be to
look at the outside world from the edge of the cove."

Harriet began to swim out boldly, and Ralph for a time kept pace with
her, laughing as he did so.  Suddenly, a girl cried out:

"Don't go any further, Harriet; there's a fisherman beckoning to us.
Turn back, Harriet; turn back!"  Harriet turned quickly.  She saw a man
on the cliff gesticulating and waving his hand.  She looked at Ralph.
Ralph was still swimming close to her.  The other girls had not even
gone out of their depths.  Robina, however, with her face white as
death, was struggling into deep water.

"No, no!" cried Harriet.  "Turn back, turn back, Robina!  It's all
right--it really is.  Don't come any further, you'll be drowned if you
do!"

"Ralph, Ralph, Ralph!" pleaded Robina.  "Come back to me, come back!"

The little boy looked at her and smiled.

"Don't be frightened," he said.  "I is all right.  I is just going as
far as Harriet, and then I'll swim back to you.  It's lovely in the
water, it is so warm and--"

A tiny white curling wave came up to him at that moment as though it
were a play-fellow and broke over him as though it were laughing at him,
and carried him imperceptibly so far from Harriet that she could no
longer reach out her hand to touch him.  Oh, still of course he was
quite safe.  He was nowhere near the entrance to the cove, and even
though there was another white wave coming on, he was safe, as safe
could be.  But why had all the waves in a moment, as it were, got little
tiny white crests on them? and why was the sea not quite so blue? and
why was there a wind which took the heat out of the water?  Why had all
these things happened?  But of course there was not the slightest
danger?  Still, perhaps Harriet might as well keep near to Ralph.  She
wanted him to be in a little bit of danger.  She wanted him to cry out
to her, and then she wanted to catch him and bring him back, and she
wanted the people on the shore to say: "Well done, Harriet!  Well done,
brave, brave girl!  You have saved the little chap's life!"

So she delayed, trifling just a minute, and now another play-fellow
wave--a bigger and a rougher one than the first two, caught the gallant
tiny swimmer, and turned him right over this time and suddenly filled
his lungs with water.  Ralph threw up his arms.  There was a sharp
scream from the girls on the shore.  Harriet saw the fisherman flying
down from the cliffs above, and, turning herself, swam as fast as ever
she could in Ralph's direction.  But now she was about to test her own
foolhardiness, for alas! poor little Ralph had got into the current--one
of those terribly dangerous currents which have wrecked not only brave
swimmers, but even boats at sea when they got within the neighbourhood
of the treacherous Needles.

The little brown head bobbed one minute on the surface of the waves and
then disappeared.  Harriet gave a frantic cry.  She swam after the boy,
putting out all her strength.  Her hand was stretched out, and when he
reappeared, she caught him by his little bathing suit.

By this time, one of the fishermen had got into the water, and a minute
or two later, both girl and boy were lying exhausted on the beach.

"You did a mighty silly thing, young folks--daring to go into the water
on a day like this!" said the man.  "Why, little master was just
drownding!"

"O Harriet!" said Frederica; "you were brave!"  Harriet heard the words,
and then sank away into a swoon.  Had she earned her reward?  These were
the last thoughts she took with her into the world of unconsciousness.

When she came to herself, Mr Durrant was bending over her.  Ralph, very
pale, but quite well, was seated close to her side and all the other
girls were gazing at her from a respectful distance.

"I don't understand this story at all," said Mr Durrant.  "Sit up,
Harriet, my dear.  You have received a great shock; you must drink some
of this."  He held a cup of hot coffee to her lips.  One of the
fishermen had brought it from his own cottage near by.

"Now, that's better," said Mr Durrant, when the girl had sipped a
little and looked round her.  "But, my dear Harriet, my last
instructions were that none of you were to go into the water.  Of
course, I know what a dangerous coast this is, and after the storm of
last night, you ran the most fearful risk."

"But she was brave! she was noble!  She did, she did try to save me!"
said Ralph, clasping Harriet's hand and fondling it as his brown eyes
filled with tears.

"Oh yes; that is quite true," said Mr Durrant.  He spoke quietly.
"Still," he said, "I don't understand why my message was disobeyed."

"But we never heard anything about it.  We shouldn't have dreamed of
going into the water," said Frederica, "if we had known that you did not
approve."

"I told Jane that you were none of you to bathe until I came back.
Harriet, there is no telegram from your father: you must consider no
news as good news."

"Oh yes," said Harriet, in a faint voice.  She took Ralph's hand and
whispered to him: "Stay close to me.  When you are close to me, I won't
be seeing all the time your little head going under the water."

"We have a great deal to be thankful for," said Mr Durrant.

"But I cannot understand Jane Bush.  She seemed in great distress about
you, Harriet, and said that you were fretting terribly about your
father.  She wanted herself to go back to try and get news from the
yacht, but of course I offered to go.  Still, I gave implicit directions
that you were none of you to bathe.  Where is Jane?"

"I think she had a headache," said Harriet.  "Anyhow, she said she would
go back and stay near the yacht.  She thought, perhaps, one of the
boatmen would see her and take her on board."

"And she never gave you my message?"

"Certainly not," said Harriet.

"Well, my dear," said Mr Durrant after a pause, "I am exceedingly sorry
that this should have happened; but nevertheless we have much to be
thankful for.  I have given that poor brave sailor what I hope he will
consider a suitable reward.  And now, children, I think we will get back
to the yacht: the sooner Harriet lies down the better.  I can see, my
dear, that your own head is aching badly."

"It is; I feel queer and rather sick," said Harriet.

"I have ordered a waggonette to meet us, and we will drive back to
Totland Bay: you are all much too tired to walk," said Mr Durrant; "all
except you, you plucky little man," he added, looking at his little son.
"You don't seem a bit the worse."

"I wasn't a bit frighted, father," said Ralph, speaking with great
excitement, "'cause I _knew_."

"What did you know, my boy?"

"That Harriet would save me, 'cause she,"--the words came out with a
rush--"did it afore!"

Everyone looked at Harriet, who turned very pale.  "Is this the second
time you have saved Ralph, my dear Harriet?" asked Mr Durrant.

"Ralph?" said Harriet.  "You know you ought not to speak--"

"Don't ask her, father," said Ralph.

"I ask her nothing.  She has saved your life this time, that I can
testify.  You are a brave girl, Harriet; forgive me for having doubted
you.  Bravery like yours must be accompanied by other noble traits of
character.  I will say no more for the present except to add that you
ran a terrible risk, and that whatever your good intentions, you could
not possibly have saved Ralph but for the aid of that brave sailor who
brought you both back to shore."

The said sailor now appeared on the scene to announce the approach of
the carriage which was to convey the party to the yacht.  They all got
in, and in a short time were back again on board the "Sea-Gull."  The
first person they saw when they stood on the deck of the pretty little
yacht was Jane, whose white face and anxious eyes would have told too
much of her story had not Harriet rushed up to her, squeezed her hand
and managed to whisper:

"It is all right; and you have but to say boldly now that you forgot to
give me the message about not bathing."

"Is that you, Jane Bush?" said Mr Durrant at that moment.

"Yes, sir," said Jane, coming forward.

Harriet gave her fingers a squeeze.  That squeeze seemed to say:

"Five pounds will be yours--five beautiful, lovely, golden sovereigns!
Don't lose your courage now."

"I particularly gave you a message, Jane, when you were so anxious for
me to return to the yacht on Harriet's behalf.  Did you forget it?"

"What message, sir?" asked Jane.

"I requested the young people--in fact, I did much more than request, I
desired the young people not on any account to go into the water until
my return."

"O, sir--so you did!" said Jane.

"And you never gave the message?"

"No, sir," said Jane, dropping her head.

"And why not, pray?  It was very important."

"I--I had a headache, sir."

"You--in fact--forgot?"

"Yes, Mr Durrant, I--I forgot," said Jane.

"Another time, please remember.  You might be an intensely miserable
girl now but for the exceeding bravery of a man who happened to see our
little party from one of the cliffs.  Two lives were in extreme danger--
the life of your own special friend, Harriet Lane, and the life of my
little son.  Harriet was bravest of the brave, and did manage to come to
his rescue and to hold his head above water at the critical moment, but
neither of the children could have possibly resisted the current had not
this man swum into the water in his clothes and brought them back to
land.  So be more careful in future, Jane, that is all."  Mr Durrant
turned away.

"You have earned your five pounds, I am sure and certain of that," said
Harriet to her companion on the evening of that same day.

Book 2--CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

ROBINA'S DECISION.

The swimming adventure took place on Friday.  Saturday passed without
anything special occurring.  Sunday was a lovely day, when they all
steamed about and enjoyed the fresh breezes, and, as Mr Durrant
expressed it, forgot dull Care.  Monday also passed without excitement,
and on Tuesday, the little party returned in a body to Sunshine Lodge.

Now the crucial moment was close at hand, and what might have occurred
but for an unexpected obstacle, no one can quite say; for there is
little doubt that Mr Durrant was deeply impressed by Harriet's conduct.
He was such a brave man himself, that he could not but admire bravery
in others, and the girl who had risked her life for his son was not to
be lightly regarded.  He still continued to feel much puzzled about her,
and still, in his heart of hearts, much preferred Robina.

But Robina Starling was by no means at her best just now.  She looked
dull and sad and, notwithstanding every effort, care would sit upon her
young brow and visit her frank, although troubled, eyes.  Still, the
person who really quite upset the whole scheme which had been so
carefully planned by Harriet Lane was the one who, under ordinary
circumstances, might have been least expected to do so.  Her own
familiar friend was the obstacle who made matters just in the moment of
apparent victory exceedingly difficult.

Jane Bush was supposed to be a very commonplace little girl.  In one
sense, this was true.  She was not particularly clever: she was not at
all good-looking: she had few chances in life.  She had, however, her
good points.  She was devoted to the little brother and sister, who,
much younger than herself, had none of the advantages which she enjoyed.
While Harriet, in her way, was fearless and bold, Jane was a little bit
of a coward.  Now cowards are extremely useful to wicked, designing
people.  They are so easily entrapped, and when once they are in the
toils, it is almost impossible for them to get out again.

Jane felt herself in the toils as far as Harriet was concerned.
Nevertheless, she was very unhappy.  Harriet, who must have a
confidante, had given Jane a graphic account of what really occurred in
the little cove not far from Totland Bay.  Jane had listened with her
usual, absorbed attention, her round black eyes fixed on her companion's
pale face.  In the excitement of the narrative, Harriet had squeezed
Jane's hand, and had said, with passionate emphasis:

"Oh! it was such a near thing! and when I saw him throw up his dear
little hands, and when I noticed that his little brown head went under
the waves, I thought I should go mad.  Your five pounds, my own future,
all the happiness that I had planned for myself, seemed to me as nothing
at all--as nothing at all at that awful moment."

"I understand," said Jane.  She spoke in a very low voice.  "You don't
know, Harriet," she said then, "what I felt on board the yacht.  They
let me on at once, of course, for the second mate saw me and sent a boat
to the pier, and I was on deck with nothing to do only just to look at
the sea and think.  You must have all been in the water at the time, for
there came up a cloud, and the sea got quite rough, and I heard the
second mate say to one of the officers that there was a squall coming
on.  Oh!  I was nearly mad!"

"Yes; that was about the time," said Harriet, calmly.  "It was a very
fearful time.  It was then, just then, that I was earning my happy,
happy time with Ralph; my splendid future with all my educational
expenses paid: and you, you silly Jane, were earning your five pounds.
We were getting these things through our pain.  I suppose it was worth
it."

"I don't know," said Jane, in a listless voice, "perhaps so."

She got up as she spoke and walked to the other side of the deck.  This
conversation took place on Monday evening.  It was overheard by no one.
The other girls were absorbed in their own interests, and Ralph was with
his father.  Robina was reading by herself.

The week on board the yacht had not been a success as far as she was
concerned.  Had she listened, as once before she was forced to listen to
a conversation between Harriet and Jane, she might have made up her mind
to a line of conduct which was now far from her thoughts.

As Jane lay down in her little berth in her pretty state cabin on that
last night on board the "Sea-Gull" she could not help thinking over
again of Harriet's graphic narrative; and she could not help reflecting
on her own most awful feelings, had anything really happened to Ralph.
Had anything really happened!  Poor Jane trembled from head to foot.
She knew only too well what that "anything" would have been.  There
would no longer have been in this wide world a little boy called Ralph--
a little brown-eyed boy with brown hair, and the sweetest smile in the
world, and the most gallant spirit.  He would have gone away.  No little
school-mother would have been needed to look after him.  Harriet herself
might or might not be dead; but if Ralph had been drowned that time,
poor little Jane felt that she would have gone mad.  Five pounds!  They
were not so much after all.  She felt dreadful: she could not sleep.  In
the visions of the night, ugly things seemed to come and visit her.  She
started up, pressing her hands to her eyes.  Could she go on with this?
Could she allow a girl like Harriet to be companion, friend, and to a
certain extent protector of such a very precious little boy as Ralph.
Oh! how in her heart of hearts Jane did admire Robina!  How earnestly
she wished that it had been her lot to have Robina as her friend!

"She would have made me strong," thought poor Jane.  "She is never a
scrap afraid.  Now I am always afraid.  Perhaps it will be better for me
at school if Harriet is not there.  Of course I am fond of Harriet: I
ought to be, for she and I are chums; and a girl must be a mean sort to
forsake her chum.  But still--oh! she does make me feel wicked!  I
almost wish I had not earned that five pounds.  I don't think it will
bring any luck to Bobbie and Miriam."

Jane tried to force her thoughts to dwell upon the very shabby condition
of her little brother and sister; but, notwithstanding all her efforts,
she could not manage to do this.  Miriam's lack of nice clothes, and
Bobbie's lack of shoes and socks could not appeal to her, for were not
their consciences quite contented and calm and happy?  After all, was
there anything, anything so nice in the whole world as a contented
conscience?

The next day, when all the children went back to Sunshine Lodge, Jane
was greeted by a letter from the aunt who had charge of little Miriam
and Bobbie.  It was a wonderfully cheerful letter.  The aunt--Polly by
name--assured Jane that the children were particularly well, and that a
kind lady had taken a fancy to them and had given them a lot of clothes.
These clothes belonged to some of her own children who had outgrown
them, but they were of such good quality and so well made that both
Bobbie and Miriam looked almost stylish in them.  Bobbie had got shoes,
and Miriam pretty frocks; and, in short, for a time at least, the little
ones wanted for nothing.

Jane felt as she read this letter that she quite hated it.  It seemed to
take the ground from under her feet.  Her five pounds could have been
done without.  Ralph's life need not have been risked, and Jane herself
need not have been so fearfully deceitful, and need not have told a lie.

"Oh dear, oh dear!" she said to herself.  Her face looked so comical in
its distress that Vivian Amberley, who was standing near, asked her if
anything was the matter.

"Oh yes," said Jane; "I have had a letter about the children."

"Are they ill?" asked Vivian.

"No, no," answered Jane.  "They never were better; and they have got
such a lot of beautiful clothes--oh dear, oh dear!"

She gave a deep sigh, and went away.

"Well," said Vivian, turning to her companion; "I never heard of such a
funny reason as that for Jane to be so dismal.  The children are well,
and have got a lot of new clothes!  What can be up?"

"It's something to do with Harriet, of that I am sure," said Frederica.

Vivian lowered her voice.  "I can't make out what is wrong," she said.

"There is something wrong: we all feel it," said Patience.  "Why, look
at Robina."

Robina was not present, so no one could look at her.  Patience went on
excitedly:

"From the very first, there has been something up with Robina, and she
looks worse than ever now.  You know what a thoroughly jolly girl she
is.  She won't tell us why, but she is not enjoying herself."

"I suppose she is excited," said Frederica, "about Mr Durrant's
decision.  He is quite certain sure to choose her as school-mother for
Ralph."

"Quite certain sure?" repeated Patience.  "You know very little when you
say that.  I am equally certain that he won't choose her.  Anyhow, we
are all to know to-morrow morning.  This is Tuesday: he will tell us
what he has decided after breakfast to-morrow.  It is exciting, isn't
it?"

"Well," said Rose, "I do love Mr Durrant, but I think he'll be an awful
goose if he chooses that Harriet to be Ralph's school-mother."

"She is very brave, whatever she is," said Vivian.  "She was magnificent
that time when she got into the dangerous current and tried to save
Ralph.  That sailor said it was touch and go, and that although he
brought them back to shore, Ralph might have been drowned but for
Harriet."

"Yes, it was brave enough," said Frederica then; "but somehow I don't
like the state of things.  There's something up with Jane, there's
something up with Harriet.  Now I don't care twopence either for Jane or
Harriet, but there's something up with Robina, and I love Robina."

"We all love her!  Who could help it?" said the others.

"There is one good thing," said Rose; "if by any chance she is not
elected to be Ralph's school-mother, she will be back with us at Mrs
Burton's school next term.  How splendid it would be if Harriet was not
always making mischief!  How queer Harriet is!"

Just then, Harriet herself appeared.  She was walking with Jane by her
side.  Whether it was her immersion in the sea, and the excitement of
Jane through which she had lived, or whether it was that she was really
feeling things more than she cared to own, she looked paler than ever,
her blue eyes lighter, and the shadows under them more intense: her long
straight hair seemed to grow longer and more lanky, and her narrow
figure taller.  She hardly glanced at the other girls, but went past
them, accompanied by Jane.

"There they go," said Frederica: "they are going to have a big confab
now somewhere.  Why will Harriet never join the rest of us and be jolly
and merry?  We are meant to have such a beautiful time at Sunshine
Lodge, but she really takes the fun out of things: her queer melancholy
face and her odd ways of going on would depress any party.  I know Mr
Durrant feels it, and that he is dreadfully puzzled what to do."

"Oh!  Here is Robina!"

These words were uttered by two or three of the girls who ran up to
Robina at that moment.  Robina also was looking ill at ease, but her
face by no means wore the expression which characterised either Jane's
or Harriet's.  The frank look could never leave her grey eyes.  She
always held herself very erect, and her fine young figure, in
consequence, showed on every occasion to the best advantage.  She wore a
pretty white frock now, and her fine brown hair fell in masses far below
her waist.

"Dear Robina!" said Rose, running up to her and taking her hand.  "Do
sit down and be cosy with us all.  Isn't it nice to be back again at
Sunshine Lodge!  We have ten more happy days to spend here before school
begins."

"I haven't," said Robina, gently; "I am going away to-morrow."

"You are going away to-morrow!" cried several voices; while others said,
"What?" and others again exclaimed: "Oh Robina! what do you mean?" and
yet others cried, "No, no, we can't stand this, we are no: going to
allow it; we couldn't live without you, Robina!"

"You are all sweet," said Robina, "and I love you very much; and
perhaps--I am not quite sure what may happen now--but perhaps I may meet
you again at Abbeyfield.  But that is not the point.  I am leaving here
to-morrow: I am going home."

"But Robina, Robina, why? tell us why."

"There is no special secret," said Robina.  "I did not mean to say
anything about it to you--at least, not quite so soon; but as I have met
you, I may as well say I have made up my mind--I love Ralph very dearly,
but I am not going to be his school-mother.  I mean," she added proudly,
"that I shan't compete.  I haven't the slightest doubt that the decision
will be made against me, but now, whether it is made for or against me,
I shan't compete.  I am just going to tell Harriet that she need not
have any fear, and then I shall speak to Mr Durrant and I will ask him
to let me go back to father and mother.  I can't explain any more than
that.  It--it isn't exactly my fault: I am puzzled a good deal; and
perhaps if I were one of you, I could do differently, but being myself,
there is nothing for it but to withdraw."

"But there _is_ something for it," said Patience Chetwold.  "You are
withdrawing because you know something, and because you won't say it,
and is that right or fair either to Mr Durrant or Ralph?  Robina,
before you leave us, you have got to answer one question, and to answer
it truthfully."

"Well, what is it?" said Robina.

"You have never told a lie, and you know that," said Patience.

"I don't think I ever have," said Robina, thoughtfully.  "No, I am sure
I never have told even the tiniest little half lie."

"Very well," said Patience, in a voice of triumph; "you will tell the
truth now."

"Or be silent," said Robina.

"Oh well, we will take your silence for what it is worth.  Anyhow," said
Patience, "have I the permission of the rest of you girls to ask Robina
a question in all our names?"

"Certainly, certainly!" they said; and they crowded round Patience, who
placed herself in the middle of the group.

Patience was a tall, fair-haired girl with a great deal of quiet power
and dignity in her own way.

"This is a question which appeals to all us school-mothers," she said.
"We all feel ourselves more or less responsible for little Ralph.  Mr
Durrant put him, as it were, under our charge when he brought him to
Abbeyfield School.  Ralph chose Harriet to be his favourite
school-mother.  Then we all know what happened, and Harriet, as we
hoped, repented, and we were glad; and you, Robina, were chosen as the
real school-mother, and you won the pony, and we were glad of that too.
But now things are changed.  Still that fact does not alter the other
fact that we are still Ralph's school-mothers, and that we are bound, if
necessary, to protect him.

"Mr Durrant is one of the nicest men in all the world, and he has asked
us here for love of Ralph, and has given us the most glorious time, and
has done all that man could for our pleasure; and is this the return we
will make him--to allow him to choose a girl like Harriet to be
school-mother to Ralph? for of course we know--and he has said so--that
the choice lies between you,--Robina, and Harriet; and now you, just
before the moment of decision, back out of the whole thing and say you
won't be Ralph's school-mother, and that you are going home.  The rest
of us think that a very cowardly and wrong thing to do: therefore we
demand from you, as being ourselves Ralph's school-mothers, an answer to
our question."

"Yes, yes!" here interrupted the others.  "You have put the case very
well, Patience; and the question you are about to ask ought to be
answered."

"Our question is this," said Patience, raising her voice a little.  "Are
you, or are you not, prepared to say that Harriet, as far as you know,
will be a kind and truthful and honourable school-mother to Ralph?  Are
you happy in giving Ralph up yourself to Harriet's care? or do you know
anything against her?"

"I can't say, and I won't say," replied Robina, turning very red.
"There are things that even a girl placed in my position cannot do."

"Very well," said Patience, "you have answered.  You can go now, Robina,
and tell Harriet your decision.  But between now and to-morrow morning,
when the great decision is publicly made, we, the rest of the
school-mothers, will have something to say with regard to the matter."

Robina immediately left her companions.  Her head was aching; her heart
was throbbing hard.  Nevertheless, her mind was fully made up.  She
found Jane and Harriet walking side by side in the neighbourhood of the
round pond.  She approached quite close to them before they heard her.
She did not want to listen to their conversation.

"I eavesdropped once," she thought, "unintentionally of course;
nevertheless, I did such a horrid, such a mean, such a despicable thing,
and oh! how I have suffered in consequence!  But I won't eavesdrop
again--not if I know it."

Nevertheless, as she came close to the other girls, she had time to look
at the pond, and to notice the exact position of that willow bough along
whose slender branch little Ralph had crept in order to gather the
water-lilies.  The water-lilies were there still in great abundance with
all their delicate wax-like cups closed, for it was the time of their
slumber.  The pond, too, looked still and glassy on its surface, except
when the duck-weed, and many parasites of the pond threw an unwholesome
glamour over its depths.  Robina seemed to realise the whole scene that
had taken place there--the child who had dropped into the water, the
immediate power of the clinging weeds, the impossibility for the little
fellow to swim in his clothes.  She saw again Harriet rushing to the
rescue, and she well guessed the storm of devotion which she had aroused
in the heart of the brave little child.  But since that scene, which,
without its explanation, sounded innocent enough, another had taken
place--one that Robina herself had witnessed.  Could she ever forget the
agony of that moment when, almost out of her depth, she had longed in
vain for the power to swim out to save Ralph!  Would she at such a
moment have thought of any possible reward except that most divine
reward of all--that of giving up her very life for his?

Robina shook herself as though from a day-dream, and it was at this
instant that Harriet and Jane, turning, saw her standing in the path.

Jane's round face was quite pale, and there were tears in her black
eyes.  She had been letting off some of the soreness of her heart to
Harriet, and Harriet had been the reverse of sympathising.  Harriet had
said once or twice:

"All right, Jane: if you don't want the five pounds, you need not have
them.  I can assure you it is an immense sacrifice on my part to give
you so much money; but when I make a promise, I keep it.  You haven't
done much for me, so don't you think it: but I promised you five pounds.
My birthday will be this week: god-mother never forgets me.  When the
five pound note comes, it will be handed over to you: you can take it or
leave it."

Why _was_ it that the last words of Harriet's sentence were wafted to
Robina's ears?  "When the five pound note comes, you can take it or
leave it."  Harriet turned pale and drew herself up abruptly.

"Well," she said, "have you been eavesdropping again?"

"No," said Robina, stoutly.  "I came to speak to you as I heard that you
and Jane were walking in the shrubbery.  I did hear your last sentence;
I heard you say to Jane, `When the five pounds comes, you can take it or
leave it.'  I haven't an idea what that sentence means, nor does it
concern me.  I want to speak to you, however, Harriet.  Will you kindly
listen, please."

"Hadn't I better go?" said Jane, who felt exceedingly uncomfortable.

"No," said Robina; "unless Harriet greatly minds, I should prefer you to
stay, Jane.  You are her special friend, and you ought to witness what I
am about to say to her.  I don't think that you, Harriet, and you, Jane,
have many secrets from each other."

The two other girls were silent, but they both felt uncomfortable.

"What I have to say," continued Robina, "can be said in a very few words
indeed.  I have just to tell you this, Harriet.  I have made up my mind
to withdraw from the competition which was set to all the school-girls
who came to this house, but which was especially intended to be a
competition between you and me.  I do not now wish to be Ralph Durrant's
school-mother: you will therefore have no difficulty to-morrow morning,
for there will be no one to compete with you.  I am now going to tell
Mr Durrant what I have decided."

"But I say," cried Harriet, "you must have some reason for this!"

"I have my reasons, but those I am not prepared to give," said Robina.

"I know," continued Harriet, speaking in great excitement; "you nasty,
horrid spitfire!  You find that you have utterly failed--that you have
not a chance of getting the position that you so covet; therefore you
think you will make an imposing appearance if you withdraw from the
competition.  But let me tell you, that is monstrously unfair!  You
ought not to withdraw at the eleventh hour."

"That is my affair," said Robina.  "Even if I were elected school-mother
to-morrow, I should not accept the position."

"Oh, wouldn't you?" said Harriet.  "It is so fine to hear you talking in
that way; you know perfectly well that you would just give your eyes for
it."

"If that is your opinion, you are welcome to keep it," said Robina.
"But anyhow, my mind is quite made up."

She was turning to go, when Harriet ran after her.

"Robina," she said, "do you mean--that is, you will go without saying
anything?"

"Ask me no questions; when you are made school-mother, I suppose you
will be content: and I suppose--at least I hope you will be good to
little Ralph."

Robina's lips quivered.  Before Harriet could utter another word she had
pushed her brusquely aside, and disappeared in the direction towards the
house.

Book 2--CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

PATIENCE INTERFERES.

It was now early in September, and although the weather was quite warm,
the days were of course shortening considerably.  Mrs Burton's school
was to re-open on the fifteenth of September.  It was now the fourth day
of the month; there was, therefore, practically ten days' holiday still
remaining for the girls.

These last few days, as all school-girls know, are very precious: each
one, as it arrives, seems more valuable than its predecessor.  More and
more pleasures seem to crowd into these last hours, more and more things
are there to talk about, more and more matters to arrange.  There is at
once pain and pleasure mingled in each young breast: the pain of parting
from the beloved friends who have been with one during the long summer
vacation, the pain of giving up pleasure for discipline, of giving up
freedom for a certain amount of restraint.  But the girl who really
longs to do her best in life does not go back to school with unmixed
sensations of regret.  Healthier feelings than these visit her heart.
She will accomplish much in the weeks that lie before her.  She will get
to the other side of this and that difficulty.  She will take an
honourable place in the report which is sent to her parents at the end
of the term.  She will enjoy the healthy life of routine and wholesome
discipline.

The young girls who were inmates now of Sunshine Lodge were all of them,
with the exception of Harriet Lane and Jane Bush, healthy-minded.  They
liked their pleasant school life: they were devoted to their parents and
guardians: but they were also devoted to Mrs Burton and to the teachers
in that delightful home of culture, Abbeyfield School.  They therefore
talked much of their future as they wandered about now in the dusk
before coming in to late supper; and for a time even Robina and Harriet
and Jane and little Ralph were forgotten.

Had not Patience to make the very most of her last term at school? and
how soon would Cecil Amberley be moved from the third to the sixth form?
What would be the big prize to be competed for next Christmas?  What
would the new French Mademoiselle be like? and would their dear old
Fraulein return once more to the school?  Such and such questions
occupied them: but by-and-by it was time to go indoors to dress for
supper, and when they entered the house a shadow seemed to fall over
their bright young spirits and they looked one at the other
questioningly.

"How selfish I am?" whispered Patience Chetwold to her sister.  "I
forgot in the excitement of our chat all about poor Robina.  Girls, we
must stick to our promise and worry out this thing to the very bottom."

"But if Robina has spoken to Mr Durrant, what is there to be done?"
remarked Rose.  "Mr Durrant is a very determined man, and hates
anything that he considers small and mean: he will not like our
interfering.  You see," continued Rose, "we have been out of this matter
from the very first; the whole thing has rested between Harriet and
Robina."

"Yes," said Patience; "and very, very cleverly has Harriet played her
cards.  Well, all that I can say is that if I can circumvent that horrid
sly creature in favour of poor dear true-hearted Robina, I shall do so.
But now, let us run upstairs and get tidy for supper.  This may be
Liberty Hall, girls, but Mr Durrant likes form and ceremony as much as
anyone I know; and if the girls of Sunshine Lodge--as he calls us--don't
make a presentable appearance at the last meal in the day, he is always
somewhat annoyed."  The different girls went off immediately to their
rooms, where they arrayed themselves in pretty evening dress.  The
shortness of the evenings by no means took from the pleasure of being at
Sunshine Lodge; in fact, of late, the evenings had been almost the most
delightful part of the day.  With such a host as Mr Durrant it was
quite impossible to be dull.  He was the best story teller and the best
comrade in the world.  He had a way of making every child with whom he
came in contact feel perfectly at home with him.  But, at the same time,
that child would not dare to take an undue liberty.  He expected the
child to be happy--very, very happy--but he also expected and insisted
on instant obedience.

"When I put my foot down, it is down," he was heard to say; "when I
order a thing to be done, that thing is to be done; there is no walking
round it, or squeezing out of it, or circumventing it in any way
whatsoever.  My object is the pleasure of all these young people; but I
am the captain of this ship--if I may be permitted to use the simile--
and the general in this battlefield.  The captain must be obeyed, or the
ship founders; and the general must give his orders, or the battle is
lost."

The girls knew all these things, and the very fact that there was unseen
discipline at Sunshine Lodge gave the final zest to their enjoyments.
Ralph would not have been the charming boy he was, but for this
admirable trait of his father's.  Ralph, from his earliest days had
obeyed at a word, at a nod.  When he was told to go to bed, he went.  He
was never heard to plead for one minute or two minutes more.  When he
was ordered to get up, he rose.  When he was expected to attend to his
lessons, he did so.  All the same, Ralph felt himself free as a little
bird in the air, and happy as any child will be who clings to his
beloved father's hand.  Even when parted from his father, Ralph had
metaphorically clung to that strong brown hand.  When he found things
difficult in his little life, he remembered it,--how firm it was, how
supporting.  Even when his father was not present, he did instinctively
what that father wished.

The happy little party at Sunshine Lodge came downstairs on this special
evening with a certain feeling of expectancy.  The Chetwolds and the
Amberleys were very much concerned to know if anything decisive had yet
taken place; if Robina had met Mr Durrant and had told him her
decision, if Harriet knew, and if when they all met--first of all in the
pleasant drawing-room and then in the still more delightful
dining-room--they would see Robina's proud calm face looking a little
prouder and a little more resolved than usual, and Harriet's queer pale
face somewhat triumphant in its expression and Jane looking queer and
frightened and worried as she had always done of late.

But when they all did come downstairs, the first thing they noticed was
that although Robina was in the room, and Harriet and Jane, Mr Durrant
was absent.  Robina was seated in a distant corner where the electric
light fell full on the pages of her open book.  She wore a white frock,
but had not taken otherwise much pains with her appearance.  Robina did
not even look up when her companions entered the room.  Harriet, dressed
in all the finery she could lay hands on, was standing by a table
talking in a low tone to Jane.  Ralph, who, as a rule, never sat up to
supper, was also present on this occasion.  He was dancing about in that
radiant fashion he had, flying excitedly from one object of interest to
another.

"Oh, what do you think, Patience?" he said.  "I's got to sit up to
supper to-night!"

"Have you, indeed, Ralph?" replied Patience in some surprise, "but it's
rather late for you, isn't it?"

"It's not at all too late," said Harriet, just raising her eyes and
glancing defiantly at Patience and then turning to Ralph.  "In the
absence of your father, Ralph, I give you leave to sit up," she said.

"Sankoo, Harriet," said Ralph, taking her hand, and giving it a most
affectionate squeeze.  "Oh!  I _is_ glad!" he said.  "I feel quite a
grown-up person to-night."

Robina did not take the slightest notice, but Frederica now enquired
eagerly if Mr Durrant were really absent.

"Yes," said Jane; "when we came in, expecting to find him here as usual,
we were told that he was obliged to go suddenly to London, but would be
back here by a very early train in the morning."

"John told us," continued Harriet, "that Mr Durrant will return in time
for breakfast; we must spend this evening as best we can without him."

Here she glanced at Robina.  Ralph, who had been pulling excitedly at
Harriet's hand without receiving any attention, now left her and ran up
to Robina.

"Is you sad about anything, Robin?" he asked.

"Oh, no," replied Robina.  She laid down her book and looked full at
him.  He looted full back at her.

"Don't," he said suddenly, in a low voice.

"Why did you ask me that?" she responded.

Her tone was dropping to a whisper.

"Your eyes hurt," said the little fellow; "they go inside me and--and--
burn something."

He touched his little breast.  Robina bent forward and without a
moment's warning gave him a quick and passionate kiss.

"Hypocrite!" whispered Harriet under her breath.  She called Ralph to
her.

"Come here," she said.

He went slowly and with manifest unwillingness.

"Sit there for a minute," said Harriet.

She stalked across the room and stood in front of Robina's chair.

"Did you mean," she said, in a very low voice, "to do what you said you
would just now?"

"Did I mean it?" replied Robina.  "Yes; I meant it."

"But Mr Durrant is away," continued Harriet.

"Yes."

"You will see him in the morning, will you not--I mean as soon as he
comes back?"

"Yes," said Robina again.

None of the others could hear this low-voiced conversation, but Harriet
went back to the centre of the room with a satisfied expression.  Ralph,
who had been watching the two girls, now said in a tone of excitement:

"Has you found out what is wrong with Robin?"

"There is nothing whatever wrong with her: don't be a goose, Ralph,"
said Harriet.

But Ralph's longing brown eyes went straight to the sorrowful girl
seated by herself in the distant corner.  His little child fancy
returned to her in her trouble.  Harriet, however, who felt now quite
sure of her own position, was not going to permit Ralph to forsake her.
She sat down in a chair and called him to her side.

"Who allowed you to sit up to supper?"

"Why, you, in course, Harriet."

"Which of the school-mothers do you love best?"

"Harriet," said Ralph, glancing again at Robina's bowed head: "I has
said it so often."

"All right, say it once more, or you go to bed."

"I love you," said the child.

"Put your arms tight around me, and kiss me, as you did round Robina
just now."

"No," said Ralph.  He put both his little hands to his sides, standing
still very near Harriet, but not touching her.

"If you refuse, you go to bed."

"All wight, Harriet," replied the little chap.

"Then you won't kiss me--you, who love me so dearly--you _won't_ kiss
the Harriet who saved your life?"

"Oh--'course I love you," said Ralph, "does you want me to kiss you like
that?  I only kiss when I--I--can't help it.  I am not a sort of kissing
boy at all.  I am like father--I think just a look is enough, and a sort
of smile now and then, and a sort of feel--oh, you know it--down--deep,
deep here.  I doesn't kiss father much; he doesn't think it man-like for
boys to kiss."

"Kiss me the way you kissed Robina, and do it at once," said Harriet,
"or you go to bed."

"No," said Ralph again.

The other girls were scarcely listening, but this little scene between
the two was drawing general attention.  Patience, in particular, guessed
that there was some struggle going on between Harriet and Ralph, and
although she pretended to talk to her companions, she could not help
listening.

"Kiss me," repeated Harriet, guessing that she was drawing the attention
of the room, and getting excited in her determination to win the
victory.  "Kiss me, or you go to bed!"

"No," said Ralph again.  Then he added, now putting his two hands behind
him, "I won't ever kiss you, Harriet, because you threat me--that isn't
me at all.  I wouldn't be a man-like boy if I did things 'cause o'
threats."

"Well," said Harriet, who was terribly afraid of not scoring the victory
in this encounter, and being forced therefore to change her tactics,
"kiss me because twice I risked my life for you and because I want your
kiss.  Do you remember when you went down beneath the soft wave and when
you came up again and I caught you and--and--saved you?"

"Yes, yes!" said Ralph in a ferment of admiration.  "Dear Harriet!"  His
arms went tightly round her neck.  He kissed her twice.  "And now I's
going to bed," he said.

"What in the world do you mean by that, you little silly?"

"'Cause you said I was to go to bed if I didn't kiss you.  I didn't kiss
you 'cause of your threat; I kissed you 'cause you 'minded me of the
great thing you had done.  But I is going to bed, all the same."

"No, you sit up because I order it; now don't be a goose, and don't paw
me any more."

Harriet stood up, yawning as she did so.  Ralph sunk on to the next
chair.  He felt very despondent, he knew not why.  Again he could not
help glancing at Robina and wishing that she would not keep on reading.
He found himself watching her.  What a long time she was before she
turned a page.  Ralph thought he would count the seconds.  He knew the
clock, and glanced at it.  Five whole minutes passed.  Still Robina sat
with her head of thick hair bent and without a page being turned.  Ralph
would have given worlds to say: "Is that a very difficult book, Robina,
and can't you read it any quicker than I can read my `Reading without
Tears' book?"  But somehow or other, Harriet's presence prevented his
approaching Robina.

The next minute, there came the welcome relief of hearing that supper
was served, and all the girls trooped into the dining-room.

Ralph had a high chair close to Harriet's side; who told him at once
carelessly that he might eat anything he liked for supper, and then
devoted herself to telling amusing stories to two of the Amberleys and
to Jane.  But Ralph was not hungry.  He was sleepy, and really wanted
his bed.  He was thinking very hard of his father.  If only father were
at home, things would be quite different.  He would have said good-night
long ago, and father would have come just before going downstairs, and
would have kissed him, and would have said, "Good-night Ralph, old boy,
sleep well, and dream good dreams, and remember to-morrow morning that
you are some hours older than when you went to sleep, and ought to be
some hours wiser."  And then father would go away, and Ralph would
whisper to himself the old childish charm which his nurse had taught
him--his nurse who died long ago, and which he had never forgotten:

  "Matthew, Mark, Luke and John
  Bless the bed I lie on.
  Four corners to my bed:
  Five angels be there spread.
  Two at my head:
  Two at my feet:
  One at my heart, my soul to keep..."

And then in a few minutes he would have been sound asleep.  He nodded
his head once or twice now, and finally upset a cup of chocolate which
had been placed by his side.  Some of the chocolate streamed over
Harriet's white dress.  She did not possess many clothes, and was
consequently exceedingly angry.  She tried to keep in her anger as best
she could, but showed it notwithstanding all her efforts, by the colour
in her cheeks and the way her pale blue eyes flashed.

"Oh Ralph, how careless and awkward you are!  Really, you must not do
this sort of thing again."

"I is seepy: I really want to go to bed," said Ralph.  "I am awfu'
sorry, Harriet, and when you saved my life and all!  Oh, let me sop it
up."

He took his own table-napkin and tried to repair the mischief, but
Harriet pulled her dress roughly out of his hands and, telling the other
girls that she must go away to wash the stains out, left the room.

"Now, Ralph," said Patience, when this had happened; "if I were you I
would go straight off to my by-by downy nest; you know you are just
longing to be in it."

"I is," said Ralph, "but I mustn't go, must I, Robina?"

He looked straight at Robina for guidance.

"I don't know," replied Robina, just glancing at him, and then looking
away.

"But Robina, do tell him to _go_," said Patience.  "If any two people at
the present moment are supposed to have authority over Ralph, you and
Harriet are those individuals.  Harriet has gone away to mop her dress,
and Ralph looks quite white with fatigue."

"I cannot interfere," said Robina.

"Very well," said Patience; "then I will: I am a school-mother too.
This sort of thing has got to end.  Come, Ralph, I shall take you to
bed."

"But won't Harriet be--be--angry?" said the little fellow, his lips
quivering.

"You leave the matter to me," said Patience.  She looked strong and
determined.  "Your father would wish it," she said; and at these words
and at the cool feel of her hand, Ralph yielded to his own inclinations
and left the room with her.

When they got upstairs, however, he asked her once or twice rather
piteously if she thought Harriet would mind.

"I will see that she doesn't," said Patience.  "You leave it to me,
Ralph."

"Oh but," said Ralph, as he got into his little pyjamas, "she has been
so awfully brave, you know--saved my life, you know."

"Yes, I know all that," said Patience, "and I know of course that you
are very grateful to her; but I do wonder something, Ralph."

"What is that?" asked the child.

"If you understand the difference between very grateful to a person and
loving a person very dearly?"  Ralph looked immensely puzzled.

"I mean this," said Patience, wondering at her own audacity.  "You say
that Harriet saved your life."

"Yes," said Ralph, with great determination.  "Her did."

"But before she saved your life, you didn't care for her so very, very
much, did you?"

"Not so awfully as all that," said Ralph, considering his words.

"But afterwards?" continued Patience.

"Couldn't help it arterards," said Ralph.  "Her did it twice, you know."

Patience did not know, but she was determined to treasure up the
information given unwittingly by Ralph.

"Well," she said after a minute's pause, "I understand of course quite
well that you are awfully obliged to her and all that, and that perhaps
you do love her.  But you don't love her better than your father, do
you?"

"Better nor father?" said Ralph.  "In _course_ not?"

"But did he ever save your life?"

"No," said Ralph; "but then he _is father_."

"I see quite well, my wise little man," said Patience, tucking him up
and kissing him.  "Now Robina never saved your life: but you--you love
her notwithstanding that?"

"Awful much!" said Ralph.

"I saw you kiss her to-night," said Patience.

"Cause I love her so much," said Ralph.

"Good-night now, Ralph.  Sleep very sound."

"Wait till I say my `Matthew, Mark,'" said Ralph.

He closed his eyes, repeated the old song rapidly and, before the last
words had come to an end, was asleep.

Patience went downstairs.  By this time Harriet had returned.  She had
been forced to remove the poor chocolate-stained white frock and to put
on another, which did not make her look half so well dressed.  She was
still feeling cross and sore.  As soon as she entered the room, her
first exclamation was, "Where is Ralph?"

"Gone to bed," said Frederica Chetwold.

"Gone to bed?" said Harriet.  "Who has given Ralph leave to go to bed?"

"Patience took him to bed.  You had better not interfere about it," said
Frederica: "for if you do," she continued, "we'll all tell Mr Durrant
in the morning.  You are not school-mother yet, so don't be over sure of
things."

At that moment, Robina got up and left the room.  Harriet sank down in a
chair.  She was trembling with suppressed passion.

"I wonder," she said, after a pause, "why you all dislike me as you do.
Of course," she added, "there can be but one explanation, and that is,
jealousy."

"Not at all," said Patience.  "As a matter of fact, I don't believe
there is a girl amongst us who would change with you; for to change with
you, Harriet Lane, would be to possess your nature, and that is what
none of us wish for.  But we are quite determined to see justice done to
Ralph."

"Justice done to Ralph?" said Harriet.

"Yes: and to Robina.  We know what has happened to-night, for Robina
told us."

"Oh, she told you!" said Harriet.  "That is so like her."

"Yes; she said she was not going to compete.  Now, she must have a
reason for that, and Frederica and I and Rose and Cecil and Vivian are
all absolutely resolved to find out what that reason is.  We have been
invited to this house and have been given this happy time, because in a
sort of way we also are Ralph's school-mothers.  You expect a great
triumph in the morning, Harriet.  Well all I can say is this: look out
for storms."

"It is that horrid, horrid Robina!  There is no spiteful thing she would
not do against me," said Harriet.  "But Ralph loves me best.  I don't
pretend that I don't want the post: I do want it.  I haven't a happy
home like most of you: and to be Ralph's school-mother, and to live here
would be of great moment to me.  It would mean all my future being
assured.  You can't think what it would mean; for you don't any of you
know what it is to be--oh--poor!"  Harriet's face turned very pale.

"Ralph does love me, and why should not he? and if Mr Durrant is
contented to choose me, and Robina doesn't want to be school-mother--"

"Robina doesn't want to be school-mother!" interrupted Patience.  "You
are either a goose or a liar, Harriet; for you know that in her heart of
hearts, Robina is dying to be school-mother to little Ralph--and not for
your horrid worldly reasons, but because she--she loves him!  Oh, we did
think that you repented that time at school, but your conduct since you
came here has puzzled us dreadfully."

Harriet, however, had now recovered herself.  This attack on the part of
her school-fellows was unexpected, and at first she was almost thrown
off her usual balance of mind.  Her customary self-possession very
nearly deserted her, but now she recovered it.

"After all," she said, "you may think what you please.  By this time
to-morrow I shall be established in my position, and I don't think
either Ralph or his father will regret it.  As you, Patience, have taken
it upon you to order Ralph to bed--a thing which I imagine you will
never have the power to do again--I shall not disturb him to-night: but
when I am his school-mother, he will do what I wish, please understand:
he will have passed out of your life, Patience, and out of the lives of
all the rest of you, and you need not call yourselves by the ridiculous
name of school-mothers any longer.  You will be back to your horrid
school life, and I wish you joy of it.  I shall stay here, and be happy.
I wish, however, to say one thing.  I think it exceedingly shabby of
Robina to give up the contest at the eleventh hour.  It shows that
notwithstanding your high opinion of her she is a coward at heart.  She
is so certain that she will be beaten, that she won't wait to witness
her own discomfiture.  Ralph choose Robina, indeed!  There never was any
chance of that."

"No," said Patience, "and that brings us to another thing.  Dear little
Ralph told me that you saved his life--"

"Good gracious!" said Harriet: "didn't you all see me do it?"

"Yes, but he said you saved his life twice.  When was the first
occasion?"

Harriet bit her lips.

"Children exaggerate things," she said after a pause.  "I did risk my
own life for Ralph at Totland Bay, and the dear little man got
confused."

"I don't think so," said Patience; "he is never confused about things.
Well, at any rate, Harriet, we should like you to explain that remark of
Ralph's to-morrow to Mr Durrant before the great decision is finally
come to."

"Your likings or not likings, Patience Chetwold, will probably not be of
the slightest consequence," said Harriet, leaving the room as she spoke
with her head in the air.

The moment she had gone, the rest of the girls drew close together.

"Now listen," said Patience.  "I have talked to that poor child.  In his
heart of hearts he doesn't really love Harriet.  She would be a cruel
and dreadful girl to leave him with.  Didn't you watch her to-night, and
didn't you see how she was forcing him to do something, and how he was
refusing, and how she was making him do it in the end? and didn't you
notice the way he hugged Robina?  Oh! it's Robina he loves in his heart
of hearts: he doesn't care for Harriet, but she has got the poor little
darling into her power, and he is such a brave pet, and is so impressed
by his sense of gratitude to her, he will do anything for her.  Now,
girls, we have a great deal to do between now and eleven o'clock
to-morrow morning.  We have to get our evidence together."

"Oh what, Patience, what?" asked Rose: while the others clustered round
her.

"Let me see," said Patience.  "You, of course, Frederica, and you three
Amberley girls will help me.  There are five of us in all.  Robina must
not lose this chance: Harriet must not get the victory.  The person to
approach on the subject is Jane Bush."

Book 2--CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

ANXIOUS TIMES.

The other girls started when Patience delivered herself of this last
remark.

"Jane Bush?" they said, looking at one another as though they thought
Patience Chetwold--Patience, the most down-right, matter-of-fact,
sensible girl on earth--had suddenly taken leave of her senses.  "What
do you mean, Patience?" they said, almost in chorus.  "What can poor
Jane have to do with it?"

"Anyone can see," remarked Rose, "that Jane is terribly afraid of
Harriet, but she herself, poor little thing, has done nothing."

"Yes, she has," remarked Patience; "Jane has done a great deal more than
any of the rest of you have the least idea of.  And now, girls," she
added, "I am going to prove my words."

As Patience finished speaking, she abruptly left the room.  She was only
gone a few minutes, and when she came back, she was holding the
unwilling hand of poor terrified looking Jane Bush.  Jane had said
good-night to Harriet, and had gone away to her own room.  It so
happened that the chamber in which she reposed was nowhere near
Harriet's, which, as Patience remarked, was a good thing on the present
occasion; and Harriet being certain that nothing could really happen
further to damage her cause, had gone safely and comfortably to bed.
Little did she guess that Jane, when in the very act of preparing for
her own night's rest, was forcibly conducted to be cross-questioned by
five very determined school-mothers.

As soon as Patience got into the room, she quite calmly locked the door.

"Now," she said, looking at the others, "we shall be quite undisturbed.
Sit down, Jane," she said; "you need not be frightened, you have only
just to tell the truth, and we, between us, will look after you.  There
is no possible way of shirking the truth, Jane Bush; you may as well out
with it, sooner or later.  If you tell it without difficulty and at
once, you will suffer less than if you struggled to keep it to yourself:
you will be less miserable afterwards than you are now, for it is only
to look at your face, Jane, to know that you are a thoroughly wretched
girl.  Well, here you are, quite outside Harriet's influence for the
time being, and here are we five of us, all full of suspicion with
regard to you, and I think," continued Patience, glancing at the rest of
the girls,--"that we have got quite as much brains as you, Jane Bush; so
five sets of brains against one set of brains must win the victory,
mustn't they?  That's common-sense, isn't it, Jane?  Now then; let us
begin.  Which amongst us girls will begin to question Jane first?"

"I don't want any of you to talk to me; I have nothing to say at all: I
want to go back to my bed," said Jane, who was so terribly frightened
that she forgot all that remorse which troubled her, her only present
desire being to fly from the presence of the dreadful five girls who had
entrapped her into their power.

"Come, come," said Patience; "there's no good in giving way: it will be
all right if you only tell us the truth.  Sit down in that chair and
make yourself comfy.  Now then, you poor little thing, we know quite
well that you are the cat's-paw, and that your poor little paw is
dreadfully burnt.  But never mind, Janie, you will be out of all this
misery if you will take the advice of girls who at least have a shadow
of honour in their disposition."

At these words, Jane stopped crying, raised her head, and looked with
her round black eyes full into the faces of all five.  It was true what
they had said: they were honourable and she, if left to herself, would
much rather not walk in deceit's crooked ways.  She gave a sigh deep
from her heart.  A memory stole over her of the little children who were
really all her world--little Miriam, little Bobbie, they thought their
own Jane perfect; but if they could look into her heart, would even such
tiny children trust her?  She shivered, and sat very still.

"You had best do the questioning, Patience," said Frederica; "you have
taken this matter in hand, and you had best pull it through."

"Very well," said Patience; "then I will make short work of it.  It is
this way, Jane.  You know quite well that Harriet wants to be elected
school-mother to Ralph.  She wants to live here and to have all the
advantages of the home Mr Durrant means to offer to the girl who is
elected to the post.  You know that at least, don't you?"

Jane nodded her head.

"So far, so good," said Patience.  "You will please note on a piece of
paper, Frederica, that Jane Bush admits that Harriet is anxious to be
Ralph's school-mother."

Frederica, seeing that the proceedings were to take such an orderly
course, immediately approached the centre-table and wrote down Jane's
reply on a piece of paper.

"That is statement one," continued Patience.  "Now statement two is
this: another girl equally wishes for the post, and that girl is Robina
Starling.  You admit that also, don't you, Jane?"

"Yes," said Jane.

"Note it down, please, Frederica," said Patience.  "Now, Jane,"
continued Patience, "we come to the really important part.  For some
extraordinary reason Robina, who is admirably suited to become Ralph's
school-mother is likely--more than likely--to be worsted in this
conflict by Harriet, who is not suitable at all.  Now, there is not the
slightest doubt in the minds of us five girls that there is foul play in
this matter: yes, Jane, foul play.  Is there foul play or is there not?"

Jane grew scarlet and fidgetted in her chair.

"Is there foul play?" repeated Patience.

"I am not going to say," remarked Jane.

"Note that down, please, Frederica," said Patience.

Frederica did so.

"Can you state now," continued Patience, very solemnly, "can you as a
Christian child who has been baptised and has gone to church every
Sunday and who hopes to be confirmed next year--can you state solemnly
that to your certain knowledge there is no foul play in this matter?
If, after careful consideration, you will tell us that, we shall be
inclined to believe you.  But pause a minute first," continued Patience;
"we want you to consider very carefully what such a statement on your
part means.  It means that Harriet, who is unsuited in every respect to
look after Ralph, will be elected as his school-mother, and it means, if
you state a false thing, that you can never, never, as long as you live,
be a truly happy girl again.  Now, tell us the truth.  We promise to
believe you as far as we can.  Yes or no, Jane? yes or no?"

"You frighten me," said Jane.

"That is not the point.  What do you mean to say?"

"I--I can't--" Jane wriggled.

"Look up," said Patience.  "You are not a coward by nature.  Can you
positively declare that there is no foul play?"

"I can't," said Jane then; and at these words she subsided into her seat
sobbing, not loudly, but in the most heart-broken and terrible manner,
swaying from side to side, bemoaning her own lot, and then suddenly
springing up and confronting the five girls.

"Oh, you are cruel!" she said.  "You persecute me!  You have not got a
little Bobbie and a little Miriam waiting and wanting--waiting and
wanting all you can get for them."

"You poor child!" said Patience.  Her tone changed.  She went straight
up to the culprit and put her arms round her neck.  "Come along here,
Janie," she said.  "You are a weak sort, but when all is said and done,
you are not half bad.  You have had the misfortune since you came to
school to choose a friend who worked on your worst not your best
feelings.  Now, suppose Vivian and Rose and Cecil and Frederica and I
take the place of Harriet Lane in your friendship; don't you think you
will do fifty times better?"

"Oh, but you can't be my friends," said Jane, wonderfully comforted in
spite of herself.  "You can't, for you don't know me.  You don't know
half nor quarter how bad I am, nor,--nor--what I have done nor how--how
I was tempted, nor--nor--the half nor the _quarter_ of what has
happened."

"Look here," said Patience.  "I tell you what I personally know.  I know
this; that on the day when we all landed at Totland Bay, you were seen
by me talking very earnestly with Harriet.  I also saw you run away from
the rest of the party and meet Mr Durrant, who was coming to join us in
the little bay where we were all to bathe.  I could not hear what you
said to him; but you said something, and he went back to the yacht
instead of joining us.  You also went back yourself: you did not appear
again that day, and when we saw you afterwards you seemed to us to be a
most miserable little girl.  Now, what occurred between you and Mr
Durrant will have to be explained to-morrow morning when the great
decision is come to; for we girls don't mean Robina to have no innings
in this matter.  You need not tell us anything about it now, all we want
you to do is to proclaim the simple truth to-morrow morning.  Of course
there are other things, for doubtless you know the whole matter from
beginning to end; but if you tell what really occurred between you and
Mr Durrant that will probably save the situation and secure the post of
Ralph's school-mother for Robina."

"But--Harriet--what will she think of me?" said Jane.

"What we five think of you seems more to the point," said Patience.
"Now look here, Janie; you are not going to lose your pluck.  You think
it very dreadful to betray Harriet, but let me tell you that it is fifty
thousand times more dreadful to allow a wicked girl like Harriet to have
the control and the guidance of a sweet, dear little boy like Ralph.  We
ask you for Ralph's sake, therefore, to be brave in this matter, to
confess your own sin, and to throw yourself--first on the mercy of God,
who is always willing to forgive us when we repent, and next on the
mercy of Mr Durrant and your school-fellows.  You have done terribly
wrong, of course we know that, but you are not the worst culprit.
Harriet won't confess; we have tried her and she is obdurate; you have
therefore got to save the situation.  And now, please, you will come and
sleep in my room to-night, for I don't want you to see Harriet again
between now and eleven o'clock to-morrow morning."

"Oh dear! oh dear!" said Jane.  "Oh, I am too miserable and too
frightened!"

"I have one last thing to say," said Patience.  "Would you like your own
Bobbie to be under the care of Harriet Lane with no chance of getting
away from her?"

"No, no! a thousand times no!" cried Jane, her face turning white, and
her words trembling on her lips, so great was her anxiety.

"Well, then; if that is the case, you could not be so mean as to subject
Ralph to her influence.  But come along to bed; you are tired, you poor
little thing."  Patience hardly glanced at the other school-mothers but,
taking Jane's hand, went upstairs with her, and popped her into her own
bed at once and presently lay down by her side, wondering what the
morrow would bring forth, but feeling on the whole that the odds were
marvellously once again in favour of Robina.

Now Robina herself little guessed what her school-fellows were doing,
for she slept the sleep of one who is tired out and who owns herself
defeated.  She slept heavily for several hours and when she awoke the
sun was shining into the room.  She sprang up in bed, and looked at her
little watch, which proclaimed the hour of six.  So the night had gone
by, and the morning had come.  Robina pressed her hand to her forehead.
Her own future was quite clear to her; but she was not exactly sorry for
herself just then; she was thinking all the time of Ralph.  Within her
heart there had awakened a love, so passionate, so deep, so true, for
that little brown-eyed, brown haired boy that her agony at leaving him
was the one and sole thought within her.  She had no time just then to
spare for thoughts of personal loss: she was only thinking of Ralph.
She could not betray Harriet: _noblesse oblige_ forbade.  She must go,
and Ralph must suffer.  But she felt that she could not endure to be
present when Mr Durrant made his decision.  She would tell him in
advance that she withdrew from the conflict.  He would be home early
that morning.

Robina sprang out of bed and dressed.  She ran downstairs.  There was a
servant up who told her that a carriage had been sent to meet Mr
Durrant at the railway station, and that he would, in all probability,
be back at Sunshine Lodge a little before eight o'clock.

"Then I will go to meet him," thought Robina.  "He must see me alone,
for he must make arrangements to send me home to-day.  I will just see
him and tell him, and then there will be an end, as far as I am
concerned.  I will ask him to let me go by the very first train, so that
I need not say good-bye to the other girls; only I should like just to
see Ralph once again."

Robina thought for a time.  It was only a little after seven: she would
have time: she ran softly upstairs and swiftly down one of the long
corridors until she reached Ralph's room.  Very, very softly she
unfastened the door, and very gently did she steal in.  Without making a
scrap of noise, she knelt down by the little white bed and looked with
all her heart in her eyes at the boy as he lay asleep.  She gazed on
this beautiful little face as though she would impress it on her memory
for evermore.  Then, bending forward, she pressed a kiss, light as air,
on the sleeper's forehead, whispered "Good-bye, Ralph; God bless you
always," and then she stole away.  She had made her entrance into the
room and her exit from it without in the least disturbing the little lad
who was so happily enjoying himself in Slumberland.  But the minute she
had left, he began to dream of Robina, and when he awoke some little
time afterwards, it was with her name on his lips.

He rubbed his brown eyes and looked around him in a puzzled way and said
aloud:

"I thought darling Robina had been turned into an angel and that she had
come to kiss me, and help me to become an angel too."

As he uttered the words, there was Harriet in the room; she had come to
dress him; although this was an office she need not have taken upon
herself; but it was her object to be exceedingly petting to Ralph on
this all-important occasion.

"What are you muttering to yourself?" she said.

"I thought darling Robina was in the room, and that she was turned into
an angel," said Ralph.  He looked in a puzzled way at Harriet.  "Will
you ever be turned into an angel, Harriet?" he asked.

"I don't know," said Harriet.  She spoke crossly.  "I have enough to do
to keep myself a good girl down in this world, without worrying myself
about angels," she continued.

"Oh, yes!" said Ralph, in a sad little whisper.  "Darling Robina."

"Why do you talk of her like that?" said Harriet, rather frightened at
his tone.  "It is me you love best, isn't it?"

"'Course," said Ralph, a little wearily; "only," he added, "I don't see
why I am to be saying it every minute.  I love Robina too,--_awful_
much!"

After this speech, which was uttered with such heart fervour that
Harriet must have been a great fool if she did not guess the real state
of Ralph's heart, the process of dressing became--to say the least of
it--contrary.

In the meantime, Robina herself had gone up the avenue to meet Mr
Durrant.

He was just about to drive down to Sunshine Lodge when he met a pale
girl with those remarkably steadfast and beautiful eyes which had always
attracted him and which had always won his heart.  She was waiting for
him at the gates.

"Why, Robina!" he said.

"I want to speak to you, Mr Durrant, please," said Robina.

Mr Durrant immediately motioned to the coachman to stop and sprang out
of the carriage.

"What is it, dear?" he said.  "Is anything wrong?  Will you get in and
drive down to the house or--what shall we do?"

"I would rather talk to you before we get to the house.  I want to see
you alone," said Robina.

"Very well," said Mr Durrant.  He gave his servant directions, and the
carriage disappeared towards the stables.

Mr Durrant then took Robina's hand.

"Now what is it, my dear child?" he said.  "You don't look well, dear.
Robina, what is wrong with you?"

"You know what is going to happen to-day, don't you?" said Robina.

"Yes," said Mr Durrant.  "I have got to choose between you and Harriet.
The decision will be forced to rest a good deal with Ralph, but--"

"Listen," said Robina.  "Please don't say any more.  I am awfully sorry,
but I want you to believe as long as you live, I want you always to
believe that Robina Starling loves you and loves Ralph, and that I can
never, never forget your kindness to me; but I cannot be Ralph's
school-mother."

"My clear child!"

"I can't--I can't give you any reason: I want you to let me go away.  I
have been unhappy about this, and there is nothing for me to do but--but
to go away, and I want to go away to-day and not to see Ralph again, nor
the other girls again until we meet at school.  And please keep Bo-peep,
because I don't think I ought to have him; and forget that you ever knew
me, except just keep the one little bit of memory that, although I can't
explain anything, I love you and Ralph just awfully."

"But Robina--this is the most extraordinary thing I ever heard of!  You
accepted the position of standing on trial for this post.  I have spoken
to your parents; I have practically made up my mind to elect you, unless
Ralph himself by his conduct makes it impossible for me to do so.  How
can you, my dear Robina, give the thing up now, and without a reason of
any sort?  This is unfair to me; this is unjust to yourself; this is
more than unjust to Ralph."

"I have made up my mind," said Robina.  "I may be right, or I may be
wrong; but I have made up my mind; I am not going to compete.  There is
not only Harriet," she continued; "there is Patience, and there is
Frederica, and there are the three Amberleys--you have other girls to
choose from, and I am going out of it.  Please let me go home; I cannot
be Ralph's school-mother: I really, really cannot."

Mr Durrant looked now not only puzzled but annoyed.

"You disappoint me," he said.  "I don't understand you."

They had come at this moment to the margin of the round pond, and there
were the water-lilies with all their cups of white and gold wide open,
the sun shining on them, and there was the water itself glistening in
the sunlight; and there was the willow bough.  Robina turned away with a
sick heart.

"I mean you _could_ not understand," she said, "and that is the worst
thing of all: and I can't explain, I can't!  Let me go back please,
to-day: and as you cannot love me after this, forget me utterly."

"It must be as you wish, of course," said Mr Durrant, very coldly.  "I
will order a carriage, and see that an escort is provided to take you
back to the Brown House.  As to my disappointment, we won't speak of it:
what must be, must be."

He had held out his hand as he led her in the direction of the pond.
Now, he let that same hand go.  They walked together to the house.
Robina went up to her room, Mr Durrant to his study.

"I never was so puzzled in all my life," thought the good man.  "Robina
Starling, of all people!"

Book 2--CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

JANE CONFESSES.

At eleven o'clock sharp, all the girls, with the exception of Robina,
were assembled in Mr Durrant's study.  He had asked them to meet him
there, and they had come.  Ralph was also present.  The absence of
Robina was noticed.  The thought of Robina was in every heart, and the
words: "Where is she?  Can she really have gone away?  Has she really
told Mr Durrant?" were framing themselves on all lips.  But the words
were not uttered aloud, and the thoughts in the hearts were unspoken.

Mr Durrant looked very pale and grave.  Amongst the girls who had
entered the room was Jane Bush.  But there was something extraordinary
about Jane which Harriet--could she have time to think of anything at
such a crucial moment except herself--must have remarked.  In the first
place Jane, who was never noticed at all by the older girls of the third
form, was now practically in Patience Chetwold's pocket.  Frederica
Chetwold was at her other side, and behind her were the three Amberleys.
Jane's face was terribly disfigured by crying, and she looked
altogether a most woe-begone little spectacle.

Ralph was standing by his father's side.  He wore that very pretty
little brown velveteen suit which made him look something between the
prettiest of all brownies and the most beautiful of all boys.  His
eager, loving eyes travelled from one face to another.  They fixed
themselves for a minute on Jane with that world of sorrow in them which
such eyes as his will always show when their sympathy is fully roused.
For Ralph belonged to those heroes who take the sorrows of the world on
their shoulders, and live for others, not for themselves.  But on this
occasion, even little Ralph was absorbed with the thought of what was to
happen in the future; and then, he was missing Robina: he was finding
out at each moment that it was Robina he really loved.  Was she not his
dream mother? and was not a dream mother greater even than a
school-mother? and had she not seemed like an angel to him when he lay
in slumberland that morning, and when she had somehow or other kissed
him, not only on his forehead, but on his heart of hearts.  He
fidgetted, therefore, and looked disconsolate.  Mr Durrant, on the
contrary, was pale and cold and determined.

Girls, he said, "an extraordinary thing has happened I wish to announce
it before I proceed to the little business which forms the subject of
this meeting.  Robina Starling, by her own express wish, has withdrawn
from the contest between herself and Harriet Lane and the rest of you.
She declines to become my little son's school-mother, and she wants to
go home at once, and she will go in about half an hour.  She would, in
fact, have left the house before now, but there was no convenient train.
As, by her own express intention, she is not present on this occasion,
and as she has already said good-bye to me and does not wish to see
anything of you, and as I have made all arrangements with regard to a
proper escort to convey her safely to her home, we can dismiss Robina
from our minds."

"But we can't," said Ralph, turning very white and facing his father and
looking at him with his brown eyes full of intense sorrow.

"But we can, and must, my boy," said the man.

"There are times in life, and the sooner you learn the lesson the
better, Ralph,--when we can and must do most disagreeable things.  It
is, I am sure, painful to you to give Robina up.  I do not profess to
understand her.  I liked her well, but she has gone out of our lives: we
must therefore proceed to the business in hand.  Ralph! tears?  Are
those manly?"

"I will be a man-like boy," said Ralph.  He shook his little head and
turned away from the gaze of the rest of the school-mothers, and then
all of a sudden a sob, just like the one which he was strangling in his
own throat, was heard distinctly to proceed from someone else.

He turned abruptly, and there was Jane Bush, crying very hard.  It could
not be wrong even for a man-like boy to comfort someone in distress.  So
without waiting for his father's permission, he flew to Jane and put his
arms round her neck and kissed her many times, and said:

"Don't, don't be unhappy!  I will love you if you will try not to be
unhappy!"

Now there was something exceedingly like Bobbie in the way Ralph kissed
Jane, and Jane, to relieve her feelings, gave one sob louder than the
rest and turned quickly to Patience Chetwold and said:

"I will do everything you wish."

Mr Durrant was greatly amazed at this little scene, and Harriet, who
was standing alone--for not one of the others wished to have anything to
do with her--was a good deal puzzled and disturbed, and made up her mind
to give it very soundly to Jane later on for her ridiculous conduct.
Mr Durrant paused for a minute at the unexpected interruption caused by
Ralph.  Then he said, still in that cold, stern voice:

"Come back immediately, and stand by my side, Ralph.  Robina Starling,
being out of the question, you have got to choose another school-mother.
Whom do you love best in this room?  Think well, my boy, and don't
allow false ideas even of bravery and of unselfishness to blind your
eyes to those still nobler qualities of truth and integrity.  A few days
ago, the contest seemed to me to rest entirely between Harriet Lane and
Robina Starling.  But now that Robina has withdrawn, you are at liberty
to choose any girl here present.  Make your choice freely, my son;
choose without fear or compunction, the one who in all respects will
help you to be good, to be true, to be honourable."

"She saved my life twice," murmured Ralph under his breath, and then he
looked full at Harriet and came a step forward.  "I don't quite
understand, father," he said, "all that you said about being very true,
and very, very good.  But I do know when a girl nearly gets drownded
herself to save a boy like me; and I therefore choose--" again he went a
step forward.

But just at that moment there came an interruption.  It came from
Patience Chetwold.

"Before Ralph makes his choice, Mr Durrant, I think that Jane Bush has
something to tell you."

"Jane Bush!" exclaimed Harriet, too amazed at this interruption, just
when she was about to reach the pinnacle of all her hopes, to keep
silent.

"Never mind," said Ralph, hotly, "I choose Harriet."  There was a look
of disappointment in Harriet's eyes which fired his very soul.  "I
think, after all--_p'raps_ I love Robina; but I love Harriet next best--
far next best; and she did save me, and I choose her.  Yes, Harriet--I
choose you."

"Nevertheless," said Patience, in a very steadfast voice, "it is
absolutely necessary before Mr Durrant confirms your choice, Ralph,
that he should hear something Jane Bush has to say.  The fact is this,
sir," continued Patience.  "Frederica and I and the three Amberleys have
not felt at all satisfied for some weeks past at the conduct of Harriet
Lane and Robina Starling.  We have felt quite absolutely sure, sir, that
there was something going on behind the scenes.  We were more certain
than ever of that when Robina, who loves Ralph so truly, gave up the
contest with Harriet last evening."

"Oh," said Mr Durrant; "she told you last evening, did she?"

"She did, sir," said Patience.  "She came to us when we were walking in
the grounds, and told us what her decision was.  Afterwards she went and
told Harriet."

"Oh!" said Mr Durrant.  He looked at Harriet, whose face was very
white, except where patches of angry colour starred each cheek.  "I
thought we had done with Robina," he said, "but still--"

"No, we haven't done with her," said Patience; "that is just the point.
Now Jane, tell what you have got to tell, and don't be frightened."

"It was my fault from the beginning," began Jane.  "Come, speak out,
Jane," said Patience, "and don't sob any more."

"You had better not say anything," interrupted Harriet.  "How dare you
talk and force yourself on Mr Durrant's notice? you horrid little
sneak!"

"Those are not at all pretty words, Harriet," said Mr Durrant; "and
they absolutely force me to listen to whatever Jane Bush may have to
say.  What is it, Jane?  Speak."

"Well, sir; it was this," said Jane.  "It was this.  Harriet didn't
expect any telegram to be waiting for her on board the `Sea-Gull.'"

"What?" said Mr Durrant.

"No, sir: but she told me to go to you and to tell you that there might
be one; and it was I that thought of it, sir.  I thought of a plan for
Harriet to prove to you and to all the world that she was very brave and
could save Ralph's life.  She asked me if I could think of a plan, and I
thought of that.  And you told me to tell the girls not to bathe; and I
only told Harriet, and she would not tell the others; she wanted to
prove to you, sir, that she was brave and could save Ralph's life, and--
and--I could not bear it any longer, and--and--I went back to the yacht;
and oh--oh--she was to give me five pounds, and I don't want it now--and
I am the most awfully miserable girl in all the wide world!"

This story, which came from Jane with bursts of tears and unutterable
sobs, at first sounded like mere confusion; but Mr Durrant, who had got
a very orderly--indeed, almost lawyer-like mind,--soon put the broken
and jagged edges of this queer narrative together; and by slow degrees
and careful investigation, the whole naked truth came out.  And as is
the way with such truths, a great deal more came out than Jane had at
first intended to reveal; for the whole incident of the pond, and the
willow tree, and Ralph's fall into the pond, and Harriet's apparently
noble conduct in trying to save him, came also to the fore; and the fact
that poor Robina had overheard some of Harriet's and Jane's plottings
and plannings was also brought to the light of day; so that a very, very
ugly story was revealed to the astonished ears of the good man who
thought that he was providing so very well for his little son.

Quite early, however, in the narrative, he did a somewhat queer thing.
He took Ralph by the hand, and led him to the door.

"You need not listen to any more of this," he said.  "You will find
Robina somewhere in the house; go to her."

The amazed little boy found himself in the hall, shut away from all the
school-mothers--from Harriet, who looked so terrible, and who had done
such queer things that he certainly could not love her any longer; from
Jane Bush, who seemed nearly as bad, and yet whom he, in his childish
and affectionate way, pitied; and from Patience and the others, who were
quite nice, but who had only, somehow or other, seen the outside of his
heart.  But there was Robina, and she had not gone.  He would find her.

He went slowly up the wide stairs, and when he found himself on the
first landing, he looked round him.  There one of the housemaids saw
him.  Of course she loved him: every woman in the house loved Ralph.

"What is it, little master?" she said, wondering at his pale cheeks and
at the anxious expression in his eyes.

"I want Robina," he said.

"She is shut up in her own room, little master."

Off trotted Ralph, and knocked at the door.

"Robina, Robin; let me in!" he said.

There was silence at first in answer to his imperative summons.  Then
there came a broken-down voice from within.

"I can't, Ralph: go away, please."

"But why won't you?  I must get in," said Ralph.

Robina now made no answer of any sort, and Ralph, after waiting outside
the door for a few minutes, very disconsolately retreated and went into
the garden.

Now the whole of the side of the house where Robina's room was situated
was covered with an old magnolia tree, and this magnolia had a very
thick trunk--quite thick enough and firm enough to hold the weight of a
little boy, and as Ralph had no fear, and was an excellent climber--in
fact, this small person could climb like a monkey--he soon scaled the
magnolia, and appeared outside Robina's window; and as the window
happened to be wide open--for she certainly did not expect a visitor by
that entrance--a little brown boy with brown eyes looked in at her from
the enclosure made by the magnolia, and the next minute, he was inside
the room, and pressed to Robina's heart.

"I love you much--much best of all!" he said; "and father has sent me to
you, and--and--I don't, know anything--but there's an awful fuss
downstairs, and Jane Bush is crying, and Harriet is looking awfully
angry--and--I don't understand half nor quarter what it's all about.
But I love you best; and I choose you; for I know that I can be good
with you--and oh! love me, love me a little, for I love you so much?"

Book 2--CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

VIRTUE REWARDED.

When Mr Durrant had at last got quite clearly at the truth of things,
and when Harriet, brought to bay, at first struggled to deny, but at
last was forced to confess the truth of Jane's statements, his manner
became very decided and summary.

"Jane," he said; "I have nothing to do with you except to thank you.  I
leave you your own conscience to punish you for what you did.  You were
guilty of the great sin of moral weakness.  You yielded to the wishes of
a companion who was stronger than yourself: but at the eleventh hour you
have saved the situation for me, and whoever else punishes you, Jane
Bush, I am not the one.  I believe, too, in the law of kindness, and I
fully believe in that everlasting law of God's forgiveness.  I trust,
Jane, that this will prove a lesson to you, and that you will turn over
a new leaf; and if, in the future, I can help you, I will: and I know
your kind school-fellows will not forsake you.  Patience Chetwold, my
dear, you have earned my undying gratitude.  By your promptness and
decision and cleverness and bravery you have saved my dear little son
from the greatest catastrophe which could ever have occurred to him.
Now, as to you, Harriet Lane--but I would rather speak to you not in the
presence of your companions."

At these words, all the other school-mothers went out of the room, Jane
still completely surrounded by a phalanx of her companions.  When the
door was shut behind them and Mr Durrant and Harriet were alone, he
turned to her.

"Some day, you will understand what you have done," he said.

"I understand now," said Harriet.  "It is all up," she added.  "I
wouldn't have been such a bad school-mother as you think.  There was
nothing heroic or noble about me; but I wanted the post very badly; you
should not have tempted me, Mr Durrant, by offering it.  You began by
offering a pony, which we all wanted very badly; and I did wrong to try
to secure that.  I failed, and I was sorry; and Robina won it.  Then you
offered something much more important than a pony.  My feelings of
jealousy towards Robina returned, and I thought I would try hard to
become school-mother to Ralph; for we are poor at home, and I am not
very happy, and you offered things which would have made my success in
life--"

"You don't suppose for a single moment that the path you choose to walk
in could have conduced to success--real success in life, Harriet Lane?"
said Mr Durrant.  "Did ever deceit really prosper?  I tell you what it
is, Harriet," he said, changing his tone now and going up to the girl
and taking her hand, "that you ought to be down on your knees thanking
Providence that at that terrible moment which you so cleverly and
wickedly planned in order to show off your own bravery, little Ralph was
not drowned.  Had that sailor not unexpectedly come to the rescue, Ralph
could certainly never have reached the shore, and it is even doubtful
whether you could have done so yourself.  You played with edged tools,
my child, and you may be thankful you were not more severely punished."

There was no answer from Harriet, whose eyes were fixed on the ground.

"You may be thankful, too," continued Mr Durrant, "for the painful
events of this day.  Had things not turned out as they have, you might
have got the post you so coveted, and where it would have ended--God
only knows!  Do not interrupt me by speaking: I have always known your
character, although I did not dare, even to myself, say what I feared
about it.  You would not have been, even in the most ordinary sense, a
good school-mother to Ralph: you would not even have been kind to him,
for you never really loved him.  You would both have been miserable;
you, who only saw your own aggrandisement, would not have taken any
trouble for my little son, and as you have no idea at present of truth
and honour, you would but have stepped deeper into the mire.  Be
thankful that you have not gone further, and that you have been pulled
up in your wicked ways in time.  It is not my place to say anything to
Mrs Burton, or you would be expelled from the school.  With regard to
your school life, I have nothing to say, and you will in all probability
return to Abbeyfield at the end of the holidays.  Make the best of your
chance, and pray to God to soften your heart.

"As to poor little Jane, your victim, I myself shall take steps to have
her removed to another school.  She must not be subject to the chance of
your cruelty after her confession of to-day.  You can leave me, now,
Harriet.  I commit you to God's mercy, and trust that you may repent of
your evil ways.  The carriage which was to convey Robina Starling to the
railway station will take you there, and the escort which was to conduct
her home will take you instead to your home.  Good-bye.  I cannot shake
hands with you: nevertheless, I earnestly pray and hope that you will
repent in the best sense of the word."

Harriet left the room with her head bowed down.  Mr Durrant waited
until she had gone.  Then he rang the bell.  A servant appeared.

"Tell Mrs Martin that she is to take Miss Harriet Lane instead of Miss
Robina Starling," was his order.  "Tell her to see that a comfortable
luncheon basket is packed and on no account to lose the next train."
Accordingly, a few minutes later it was Harriet Lane and not Robina
Starling who left Sunshine Lodge.  The three Amberley girls and the two
Chetwolds watched her as she departed.  They were standing in a cluster
in a bay window and holding each other's hands tightly and feeling--not
at all triumphant, but very, very sad; and Jane Bush was crying in a
corner with her head buried in a cushion.

Just then, Mr Durrant entered the room.

"Cheer up, girls; cheer up!" he said.  "A marvellous and very wonderful
thing has happened to-day.  Harriet Lane has left us, and we cannot
regret it.  I have written a line to her father who will receive her, I
believe, not unkindly.  You girls, who will meet her at the school,
will, I am certain, do your utmost to help her to retrieve the past.  As
far as Ralph and I are concerned, she has gone as completely out of our
lives as dear Robina wanted to go when I met her to-day before
breakfast.

"Now, Jane Bush; I mean to take you in hand.  You are not a good child
by any means, but I think you have the making of one, and I know a
school where you can be well and happily educated; and I mean to make
enquiries about your little brother and sister and,--who knows? but
Miriam may be allowed to join you later on at the same school.  Anyhow,
it is best for you and Harriet not to be together at present.  And now
please, all the rest of you, come back immediately to the study, for the
election of the school-mother has not yet taken place."

They all followed Mr Durrant back again to the same room.  The windows
were wide open, and the delicious autumn air, all fragrant with flowers
and sunshine, was coming in, and there, standing close together, his arm
around her waist, his hand clasping hers, was that small boy, who seemed
to divide the attributes of a fairy boy and a human boy in all his ways
and thoughts and doings.  And there was Robina, the colour in her
cheeks, and the light in her eyes.

"Ralph's school-mother.  Congratulate her and Ralph," said Mr Durrant.

"Oh! how glad I am!" said Patience.

"And how glad we all are!" cried the others, even Jane Bush joining in
the chorus.

So Robina was surrounded by her companions; and so the clouds rolled
away and the sun came truly out once more at Sunshine Lodge.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The End.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Little School-Mothers, by L.T. Meade

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LITTLE SCHOOL-MOTHERS ***

***** This file should be named 43140.txt or 43140.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/3/1/4/43140/

Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
